*** alternatives-to-snapshot-functionality-sql-server-standard ***

 For testing purposes I would like to reset a complete database to a certain state (data and structure). I would like to do this automated. Preferably a command line instruction before I start my tests. 
 After some searching I discovered that SQL Server offers an great solution for this. Snapshots. After writing a test query I discovered that the standard edition of SQL Server does NOT support this. :-( 
 Given the fact that I want this to be automated: what are my options? Overwriting the data files immediately doesn't sound like a good option to me... 
 Some other information: 
 
 Windows 7 
 Microsoft SQL Server Standard Edition (64-bit), 10.50.1600.1 
 Database size is app. 1 gigabyte 
 This is only meant for testing. So the database is NOT used by other users when I'm returning to my 'snapshot'. 
 More information about snapshots:

 
 http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/ms190677.aspx   
 This page also states that the standard edition does not support this. :-( 
 
 
 Thank you in advance! 
 
 Detach the MDF file, copy it somewhere, re-attach it. 
 When you want to reset the database, detatch the MDF, copy the old one over the top, and re-attach it. 
 Alternatively backup and restore.  
 
 If you're doing this for testing purposes, you can use  Developer Edition : 
 
 SQL Server 2008 Developer includes all of the functionality of Enterprise Edition, but is licensed only for development, test, and demo use. 
 
 
 I homebrewed a solution like this because I wasn't happy with the way replication was running (and I was also using standard edition) - maybe my solution will lead you in the right direction: 
 http://trycatchfinally.net/2009/09/moving-a-sql-server-database-to-another-server-on-a-schedule-without-using-replication/ 
 Basically, it takes a periodic backup, zips it, FTPs it somewhere, and the remote server checks for new files, extracts them, restores them, and then emails you to let you know a new replica has been restored. 
 
 For testing, you can use Developers Edition, which has snapshots and is quite cheap. However, we prefer to build a new test database from scripts in source control - that allows us to easily determine the changes, quickly roll out a testing system on any box, and saves us a lot of time. 
 