*** any-static-code-analysis-tools-for-stored-procedures ***

 
 
 
 
 
 Closed.  This question is  off-topic . It is not currently accepting answers.
                            
                         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Want to improve this question?   Update the question  so it's  on-topic  for Stack Overflow.
                         
 Closed  4 years ago . 
 
 
 
 Are there any  static code analysis  tools for  stored procedures  written particularly in  PL/SQL  and  T-SQL ? 
 
 For T-SQL, Microsoft has the database edition of VS Team Suite (although, I believe its now in the dev SKU). This link talks about writing your own static code analysis rule for T-SQL:   http://blogs.msdn.com/gertd/archive/2009/01/01/creating-t-sql-static-code-analysis-rules.aspx 
 
 Oracle has some little-known stuff built in. 
 Try this in 10g Release 2 or above: 
 
 Then compile your PL/SQL package (not an anonymous block). 
 
 Toad features the  CodeXpert  utility to statically check your PL/SQL code. 
 The utility can either scan files or connect directly to the Oracle database.  As far as I've seen, works only on Windows. 
 
 Try free  Sql Code Guard . It provides fast and comprehensive static analysis for T-Sql code, shows code complexity and objects dependencies 
 
 For PL/SQL, Toad CodeXpert can be  extended with Sonar , an open source tool to manage code quality through a plugin. 
 I guess it would be possible to write a plugin for T-SQL as well. 
 
 The nearest thing that I know of are the  estimated and actual query plan  functions available in  SQL Server Management Studio  but I'd guess there's  similar  for  other  SQL engines. 
 
 Our  SD Source Code Search Engine  is a tool for interactively searching large source code bases in many computer languages (including PL/SQL) efficiently, by preindexing the source code files by their tokens (identifiers, numbers, etc).  As a side effect of the preindexing step, it computes standard metrics:  SLOC, Cyclomatic, Halstead, ... for each file and produces a report. See the site for an example. 
 Our  SD CloneDR  is a tool for analyzing large code bases for redundant code.  We've applied it to PL/SQL, and have seen something like 45% of the code involved in clones. YMMV. The CloneDR works with a large variet of langauges; see the site for sample clone detection runs on some of those other langauges. 
 EDIT 10/4/2010: 
 Our  Source Code Search Engine  is designed to enable very fast searches across large codes of mixed languages.  It succeeds by preindexing the source code.  As a side effect of the indexing step, it compute a variety of metrics including Cyclomatic and Halstead measures of complexity. 
 Just added: not a static analysis tool, but one generally of interest to people interested software quality:
our  TestCoverage for PLSQL stored procedures . 
 
 Not that I'm aware of. Regardng PL/SQL, since Oracle doesn't expose much of their PL/SQL compilation engine its hard to find tool support. 
 The most I've been able to do is to query the data dictionary to do things like map the package dependencies. 
 
 As a followup on the post for T-SQL; VS2010 and VS2008 database development editions come with build-in static analysis rules.  These are user extensible, i.e. you can write your own analysis rules in a .net language.  The open-source project Neznayka comes with an initial set of 22 rules, and forms a useful base for you to start contributing your own.   
 Admittedly you have to fork out for Visual Studio and be prepared to develop db code using
VS projects, but the recent releases of SSDT as a plug-in for SSMS raises the prospect that Microsoft may, if it has the will-power to do so, allow user-written rules to be distributed to environments that use MS SQL projects 'for free' to develop database code. 
 The link for  Neznayka .   
 Or search the web. 
 