*** anyone-know-of-an-on-line-free-database ***

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                            As it currently stands, this question is not a good fit for our Q&A format. We expect answers to be supported by facts, references,   or expertise, but this question will likely solicit debate, arguments, polling, or extended discussion. If you feel that this question   can be improved and possibly reopened,  visit the help center  for guidance.
                            
                         
 
 
 Closed  7 years ago . 
 
 
 I wrote an application that currently runs against a local instance of MySql.  I would like to centralize the DB somewhere on the Net, and share my application. 
 But, I'm cheap, and don't want to pay for it.  Does anyone know of a free on-line relational DB service that I could connect to via C#? 
 
 What about  http://www.freesql.org  ?  Seems like you can't be too picky when you're asking for free, and this seems to offer something. 
 
 Oops, didn't read the question properly that time! :P 
 Haven't tried this yet, and their site says they had had a major crash recently, but it looks promising:  http://www.freesql.org/ 
 
 I've never heard of such a thing. A few years ago, many hosts (Brinkster, etc) offered some minimal database capacity with their free web hosting accounts, but I think you'd find it difficult to find something like that now. Even if you could, most hosts no longer allow you to connect to a database (even on an account you're paying for) outside of a web application running on their server. 
 My advice would be to cobble together an old computer and use that as a database server that you run out of your house (coupled with no-ip or some similar service, probably). If you're going to need more horsepower/bandwidth than that, you'll probably just have to suck it up and pay for something. 
 
 Have you taken a look at  http://creator.zoho.com/ ? 
I haven't tested it myself but it might be a good idea to check it out. 
 
 Well, there is  http://zymic.com/ . They provide free hosting, which includes free databases. Not sure if you can connect to it from outside. You'll have to check that out. 
 
 Sounds like you need  Amazon SimpleDB ... 
 It's not free, but pricing looks pretty good. I've not used it myself, but when I've got a bit of spare time I might use it for a project I'm working on. 
 