*** are-there-any-good-options-for-baking-out-a-django-site-as-static-files ***

 Say you have an existing database-backed Django site. Something simple, like single model containing a record for every minor league baseball team. The model is accessed by one view that lists all the teams, and another that accepts a slug and then creates a detail page all about that team.  
 Is there a good option for converting the app into a stack of baked out flat files, so that it could be served from a static file service like Amazon's S3? 
 I've toyed with  Hyde  but it's not clear to me how it applies to an existing site backed by a database. 
 Any advice would be very much appreciated. Thank you in advance. 
 
 django-medusa  is largely unmaintained. These are some alternatives mentioned in the project's README: 
 
 
 django-bakery , built and maintained  the lovely people at the  Los Angeles Times Data Desk .   (Read about it
   here .) 
 The alsoicode/django-medusa fork , by  Brandon
  Taylor . Among other things, it's been
  kept up to date for newer versions of Django. 
 django-freeze  by  Fabio Caccamo . 
 django-staticgen  by  Mishbah Razzaque . 
 
 
 
 I understand your intent, but any decent framework these days offers some sort of  caching mecanism  that alleviate the pains of dynamic content. With a properly implemented cache, the difference between static and dynamic will be trivial. Trust me. 
 Happy coding, friend. 
 
 A new one has just been announced, though it has existed and been used by its author for quite some time: 
 django-medusa . 
 I haven't tried using it yet, but it sure looks good: I will be! 
 
 I have a similar setup using Django but on GAE. I have created a build script which I use to build my static HTML files. Since GAE's version of Django templates is slightly different, this might need some testing.  
 But essentially you do something like  
 
 HTH 
 
 You are asking for a dynamic site to host in a static environment, that is impossible. The only way is to export all the files, put them into a static server. You can do it with  , it will copy all the files and convert them to html. 
 One fallback of this problem is, it can only create html files, if there are links to the pages, ie. search forms etc.  will not  work, Javascript based linking  may not  work. 
 
 I'm not familiar with anything that will convert an existing django site to a static html site.  It might be worth looking at the suite of new django/python PaaS providers.  A site like this should be easy to get running on one of these platforms and it should be pretty cheap month to month. 
 Some providers you might want to checkout include: 
 
 Gondor.io 
 ep.io 
 Django Zoom 
 
 