*** are-there-php-tools-to-generate-crud-screens-from-db-schema ***

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                            As it currently stands, this question is not a good fit for our Q&A format. We expect answers to be supported by facts, references,   or expertise, but this question will likely solicit debate, arguments, polling, or extended discussion. If you feel that this question   can be improved and possibly reopened,  visit the help center  for guidance.
                            
                         
 
 
 Closed  7 years ago . 
 
 
 I've been using  phpMyEdit  to quickly generate CRUD screens for databases; it's a quick way to start interacting with data in my projects (and lets me toss together internal admin pages fast)... but it doesn't read the DB schema, so I have to manually set it up. 
 I'm looking for a tool/way to quickly generate CRUD from beginning to end: I give it a DB table, and it reads the schema, generates the HTML markup for the form, and does the CRUD work on the db itself. 
 Does this exist? My goal is to have zero setup for basic functionality, and then I'd love the option of being able to extend that basic setup to further refine the experience. (For example: if it can see my database table has four varchar() fields, that would be ready to go with four editing fields "out of the box," but then I'd like to be able to add a little bit of code/set some flags to specify the one varchar() column that is meant to hold an email address, so the tool would then do data validation to only allow emails in that field.) 
 UPDATE: I'm seeking a solution that I can drop into my existing PHP project(s) -- not an entire framework. 
 
 I'm looking for a drop-in admin like this too, here's one I found so far: 
 http://ajaxcrud.com/ 
 
 The Yii Framework  Does this out of the box.  You use a web gui to plug in the database table name and it generates crud screens and active record classes along with all the models, views, and controllers. 
 
 Try Grocery CRUD:  http://www.grocerycrud.com/ 
 It's based on  codeigniter  and is quick to setup basic CRUD. 
 
 I think just about anything you might be interested in will require some front-end configuration or parameter setting. 
 One tool that I've heard of is  TTswiftcoder - v2.6 .  One of it's nice features is its cost ($0.00). 
 I think there are plenty of tools around - both free and not-so-free.  Try googling phrases like PHP Crud, PHP data grid, PHP code generator and the like.  Also try Sourceforge, Freshmeat,  phpclasses , Codango , ... 
 Hope this helps. 
 
 Have you tried CoughPHP?  https://github.com/awbush/coughphp 
 
 Cough generates all the code you need
  for managing the object
  model-to-relational model mapping.
  This includes simple methods for all
  your CRUD functionality. This also
  includes Cough Collection classes that
  represent the relationships between
  tables in your data model. 
 
 and:  http://www.coughphp.com/docs/1.1/data_validation/ 
 