*** backup-mysql-database-with-codeigniter ***

 I have been looking into the user guide which came with CodeIgniter. I became very interested with the   method. Particularly the following line of code: 
 
 It is supposed to backup the currently loaded MySQL database. But unfortunately, it is not working and I get the following message: 
 
 A PHP Error was encountered 
 Severity: Notice 
 Message: Undefined property: CI_Loader::$dbutil 
 Filename: views/view.php 
 Line Number: 10 
 Fatal error: Call to a member function backup() on a non-object in
  C:\xampp\htdocs\CodeIgniter\application\views\view.php on line 10 
 
 What am I missing here? Any help would be really appreciated. 
 
 Try this, You can change format zip to gz if you like :) 
 
 
 doing that using php will only work for very small databases. You will very fast run into memory limits - if you increase that other performance problems. 
 What works best is to create a dump using mysqldump: 
 
 of course you must have the required permissions to do that. 
 
 
 Easy way to backup database using codeigniter 
 
 
 
 If you are lucky enough to have one of the  ,  ,   or   enabled on your server. Maybe you would want to use the following: 
 
 
 Try this one...it has been tested...if you are going to use mysqli then it will works fine...you may put your code in your controller or model but i suggest to keep this one in your_model & call this function from your_controller... 
 
 
 I am extremely new to CodeIgniter but I succeeded to do this backup. Try this, it will work successfully and is very easy to implement. Write the code in your controller and call the function from your view page which use for backup. Get set, go and you are done. 
 
 For your full application backup, do the same procedure with the following code: 
 
 Here you can use any path of your choice. 
 
 
 
 These lines have been grabbed from codeigniters documentation: 
 
 Important:  In order to initialize the Utility class, your database
  driver must already be running, since the utilities class relies on
  it. 
 
 Please check if your database class is loaded or not when you call this function. Or you can put this line before loading the dbutil class  
 
 Try this! 
 
 
 The problem is that you are trying to backup the database very early during bootstrapping. 
 I ran into the same problem when I tried to hack CodeIgniter into backing up my database using: 
 
 at the bottom of my   file. 
 Move this to a model an allow it to autoload, and you will be fine. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 No need to add   at path 
 