*** best-database-book-for-developers ***

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                            As it currently stands, this question is not a good fit for our Q&A format. We expect answers to be supported by facts, references,   or expertise, but this question will likely solicit debate, arguments, polling, or extended discussion. If you feel that this question   can be improved and possibly reopened,  visit the help center  for guidance.
                            
                         
 
 
 Closed  7 years ago . 
 
 
 I want to download a good database book for developers, can you guide me and send me good links to find a good one. I am working with SQL Server 2008. 
 
 This has been asked here many times before: 
 
 A beginner's guide to SQL database design 
 Can anyone recommend a book for building enterprise database applications in .Net? 
 
 My personal favorite resource is  Books Online  - this is the documentation that comes with SQL server. 
 
 For database concepts  Fundamentals of Database Systems 
 Good Books for SQL  Looking for a good book to learn SQL 
 For SQl Server  How to Learn MS SQL Server 2005? 
 Beginning SQL Server 2005 Administration 
 FOr MySql  What are the best books for MySQL? 
 Book recommendation for advanced SQL design, scripting and optimiziation. 
 What are some resources I can use to learn profiling/optimizing? 
 
 Funny that no one seems to mention  Date's "SQL and relational theory : How to write accurate SQL code". 
 
 Head First SQL  (O'Reilly) is excellent, whole series is great. 
 They start of with the basics (as do most books), covering syntax, database design and advanced querying. 
 Excrept:  
 
 2008 Jolt Productivity Award Winner! 
 Is your data dragging you down? Are your tables all tangled up? Well
  we've got the tools to teach you just how to wrangle your databases
  into submission. Using the latest research in neurobiology, cognitive
  science, and learning theory to craft a multi-sensory SQL learning
  experience, Head First SQL has a visually rich format designed for the
  way your brain works, not a text-heavy approach that puts you to
  sleep. 
 Maybe you've written some simple SQL queries to interact with
  databases. But now you want more, you want to really dig into those
  databases and work with your data. Head First SQL will show you the
  fundamentals of SQL and how to really take advantage of it. We'll take
  you on a journey through the language, from basic INSERT statements
  and SELECT queries to hardcore database manipulation with indices,
  joins, and transactions. We all know "Data is Power"—but we'll show
  you how to have "Power over your Data". Expect to have fun, expect to
  learn, and expect to be querying, normalizing, and joining your data
  like a pro by the time you're finished reading! 
 
 
 See Kalen Delaney's  recommended reading list . There's some great books listed there, as well as other resources. 
 
 May I recommend  
 Microsoft SQL Server 2008 R2 Unleashed 
 