*** best-xml-based-database ***

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                            As it currently stands, this question is not a good fit for our Q&A format. We expect answers to be supported by facts, references,   or expertise, but this question will likely solicit debate, arguments, polling, or extended discussion. If you feel that this question   can be improved and possibly reopened,  visit the help center  for guidance.
                            
                         
 
 
 Closed  8 years ago . 
 
 
 I had been assigned to develop a system on where we would get a XML from multiple sources (millions of xml) and put them in some database like and judging from the xml i would receive, there wont be any concrete structure even if they are from the same source. With this reason i think i cannot suggest RDMS and currently looking at NoSQL databases. We need a system that could do CRUD and is fast on Read.  
 I had been looking at MarkLogic and eXist, which are both XML based NoSQL databases, have anyone had experience with them? and any other suggestion? Thanks 
 
 I am just looking for something similar. And found that there are special xml databases doing just that. 
 Look here:  Wikipedia 
 I found that this one is pretty good:  Sedna 
 
 Take a look at this project:  http://exist.sourceforge.net/ 
 
 You are right in saying that RDBMS would not serve the purpose even if it does support XML datatype these days. I have extensively worked in MarkLogic, and so far it is the best noSQL XMl DB you can have. I have also tried eXist, however it is not much scalable for production usage. MarkLogic gives agility in developement as well with integrated app servers and search engine. Currently it is serving terabytes of XML data in some huge publishing houses.  
 
 I don't have any practical experience with it, but I have read that IBM DB2 has  special XML capabilities .   
 SQL Server has an xml field type, but imposes some restrictions when you have such fields in a table. An annoying one (for me), is that you cannot use such a table on a linked server. 
 
 Even if the XML doesn't have a particular structure, as long as it's validating XML you could still store it in a traditional SQL database by essentially writing out the DOM. You would have tables for elements and attributes. The elements and attributes would have a foreign key column to a parent element and a column for name. 
 You say you need to have fast reads. What exactly are you reading? If you'll be looking for specific tags, then a traditional SQL database would still be able to query that pretty quickly. 
 