*** browsing-olap-cubes ***

 
 
 
 
 
 Closed.  This question is  off-topic . It is not currently accepting answers.
                            
                         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Want to improve this question?   Update the question  so it's  on-topic  for Stack Overflow.
                         
 Closed  3 years ago . 
 
 
 
 Does anybody know any fine open source cube browser? 
 Ideally, it would be something built with plain javascript. 
 Does it even exists? 
 I'm planing to use it with classic asp agains a SQL database. 
 
 You can look at  Pentaho Mondrian  (including  JPivot ), or at  Eclipse BIRT 
 With these, you get some kind of flexible reporting tools on the most popular databases, and it includes functionality to browse OLAP cubes too. 
 
 If you're looking for something lightweight, give  CubesViewer  a try: 
 It's mostly Javascript, backed up by Cubes OLAP server. 
 (Disclaimer, I'm the main developer :-)) 
 
 Check out  js-hypercube  for a javascript-only OLAP library.
The API is pretty simple.  You can deserialize json into a cube object, query for the dimension names, slice the cube, and sum the facts.  From the  documentation : 
 
 Here's an example I built using it along with backbone.js:  http://jsbin.com/rejekij/edit?html,js,output 
 
 Also take a look at PAT, which is pentaho's replacement for JPivot.
(Well actually being devloped by the community - not pentaho themselves!) 
 JPivot is a bit clunky although does the job.  PAT is very new, so can't vouch for it's stability and features! 
 http://code.google.com/p/pentahoanalysistool/ 
 
 Adobe Flex includes a control you may be able use. You can use javascript as the language (Flex supports Actionscript natively, and javascript is a subset of Actionscrpt, and can be used as well.) 
 Here is a web page about the  OLAPDataGrid  control. 
 And here is  another link . 
 Flex apps can be hosted in browsers with Flash installed. 
 
 You can look at pivot table component at flexmonster.com. It speak to olap cubes via xmla and unlike olapdatagrid does't need additional data preparation. 
 
 WebPivotTable  is a pure javascript pivot table and pivot chart component which can be used to pivot csv file and all kinds of OLAP cubes, like Mondrian, SSAS, iccube. Here is  demo  and  documents . 
 
 if you can, find the sql server 2000 Resource Kit, inside there is a project that is a javascript cube browser.  i am not sure of the licensing of this, but it is located at TOOLSANDSAMPLES\ANALYSISSERVICESTHINWEBCLIENT inside the Resource Kit.  This resource kit should be available in msdn subscription downloads. 
 
 Ranet Olap component library  has open version. Although it doesn't meet your requirement completely (require Silverlight), you should check it out. 
 