*** cannot-initialize-flask-initdb-flask-tutorial-step4 ***

 Tutorial link:  http://flask.pocoo.org/docs/0.11/tutorial/dbinit/#tutorial-dbinit 
 I am following the Flask tutorial. This is the current setup of my python script. At the end of the tutorial, I am trying to initialize the database. But for some reason, I kept on getting the same error. 
 
 This is the input of my command: 
 
 This is the output: 
 
 
 I think you should follow this: 
 
 edit the configuration in the   file or
 export an   environment variable
 pointing to a configuration file. 
 install the app from the root of the project directory 
 
 Instruct flask to use the right application 
 
 initialize the database with this command: 
 
 now you can run flaskr: 
 
 
 Pay attention to install   correctly. I don't see the "." the first time. 
 
 the correct expression should be: 
 
 Note: no spaces around  . 
 Following screenshot show you outputs with different envvar FLASK_APP : 
 
 
 Ran into the same issue, fixed it with 
 
 I had to do everything for the tutorial with  
 I'm guessing its something to do with python3 instead of python2 but I'm new to python so not super sure. 
 
 In my case, following works: 
 export FLASK_APP=flaskr.flaskr 
 flask initdb 
 
 You need to stop the current session of flask if it is still running. This is how I solved my problem.  
 
 I had this same issue -- what worked for me was re-running the command below in my current shell session.  
 
 
 I also had this problem when trying to add the example command to my project, but it was because my Flask command was not in the same file as my main application - I was trying to put it in its own standalone file. 
 When I put it into my main application file (would be   in the questioner's example) then   finds it. 
 I then tried to achieve the same end (command in a separate file) using  Blueprints  but unfortunately commands in Blueprints are  not supported yet . 
 
 The issue could also be the   being located in the root folder. vuongbui's answer is the correct one given that   is located in flaskr/flaskr and not the root. 
 
 I resolved by looking at the documentation here: 
 http://flask.pocoo.org/docs/1.0/tutorial/database/ 
 
 defines a command line command called "init-db" 
 After I saw this I ran the flask init-db command it I got the "Initialized the database" return. 
 
 I tried doing the tutorial as well, and ran into this issue. 
 I'm not sure if there was a change in Flask, but per their instructions, the main Python file is named  . In order for me to successfully run  , I had to do  . My folder directory was called  , but when I tried doing   (per their instructions of calling the directory   and then doing  ), I was running into the issue. However, doing   allowed me to run  . 
 Hope this helps! 
 EDIT: Something I played around with and realized is that I was trying to use my   folder as the  . Once I created a NEW directory in my root directory, I was able to export THAT directory. 
My folder structure looks like this now: 
 
 Now when I do  , I'm able to run   with no problem. 
 
 I had the same exact issue, following the tutorial exactly. I had run  . To run  , navigate to the directory above   (for the case of the tutorial,  ).  
 When I run   (and pare down the cache and hello files from the tutorial), I get: 
 
 Where I'm running   in  . 
 
 I know this is old but just for those still having this issue like I did yesterday.  
 My problem was   I did not put this tutorial code right before  : 
 
 
 It didn't require me to install editable. Just set the   as the folder which holds the   file, meaning set the evironment variable as the folder which contains the   file. In my case, the flask folder holds the flaskr folder which contains the   file. So, I just did the following 
 
 