*** check-if-a-database-table-exists-using-php-pdo ***

 I want to check if a table with a specific name exists in a database I've connected to using PHP and PDO.  
 It has to work on all database backends, like MySQL, SQLite, etc. 
 
 Do: 
 
 and then catch the error. If you don't get any error, but resultset with one column containing "1", then the table exists. 
 
 Here's a complete function for checking if a table exists. 
 
 Note: PDO will only throw exceptions if it is told to, by default it is silent and throws no exceptions. Thats why we need to check the result as well.  See PDO error handling at php.net 
 
 Before I go on, I do realise this is a MySQL-specific solution. 
 While all the solutions mentioned here may work, I (personally) like to keep PDO from throwing exceptions (personal preference, that's all). 
 As such, I use the following to test for table creation instead: 
 
 There's no error state generated if the table doesn't exist, you simply get a zero resultset. Works fast and consistently for me. 
 
 Once you have your database handle via PDO, you can do this: 
 
 Or wrap it in a function. 
 I tried messing around with try/catch at first, but even if the table did Not exist, there was no exception. Finally ended up with checking for the data type of the returned value from the dbh exec call. It's either an integer, if there is a match on the select count (even if there count is 0, or a boolean of false if there were no results. 
 I think this should work with all the database types that PDO supports, since the syntax is really simple. 
 
 As part of your project, create a schema view.  
 For Oracle it would be something like 
 
 For Mysql: 
 
 ETC.. 
 And then run a query in your code against the view. 
 
 At first, I was using the accepted answer, but then I noticed it was failing with empty tables. Here is the code I'm using right now: 
 
 This code is an extract of my extension class for PDO. It will produce an error (and return false) if the table doesn't exists, but will success if the table exists and/or is empty 
 
 You might be able to avoid having to rely on an error by using a query along the lines of "SHOW TABLES LIKE 'your_table'" and then counting the rows. I've been using this method successfully with MySQL and PDO but have yet to test it with other DBs 
 
 You could do a "select count(*) from table" query from php. If it returns an error or exception, the table doesn't exist. This could be the last possible resort and I am sure this works.  
 Or, you could check the schema table directly (probably requires additional permissions to be set by admin) 
 
 I do a few things in my web apps with CodeIgniter to check that the database exists (and is useful), any of these can work: 
 
 Adding the   will suppress errors if you have them enabled in your PHP setup, and checking the results of   and   can be used to not only determine if your DB is around (but that it's sane too). 
 
 This complete function is very similar to esbite's answer, but includes code to protect from SQL injection.  Also, you may not get consistent results from the accepted answer when the table in question is empty. 
 
 
 Do a query where you ask the database to create a table  if it doesn't exist: 
 
 
 This seems to work at least with SQLite3 without exceptions, etc: 
 
 
 Here's what worked for me. It was a combination of several answers: 
 
 