*** create-date-from-day-month-year-fields-in-mysql ***

 I am currently developing an application that displays documents and allows the members to search for these documents by a number of different parameters, one of them being date range. 
 The problem I am having is that the database schema was not developed by myself and the creator of the database has created a 'date' table with fields for 'day','month','year'. 
 I would like to know how I can select a specific day, month, year from the table and create a date object in SQL so that I can compare dates input by the user using BETWEEN. 
 Below is the structure of the date table: 
 
 
 You can use  STR_TO_DATE()  function. 
 
 When you have integer values for year, month and day you can make a DATETIME by combining MAKEDATE() and DATE_ADD(). MAKEDATE() with a constant day of 1 will give you a DATETIME for the first day of the given year, and then you can add to it the month and day with DATE_ADD(): 
 
 So to answer the OP's question: 
 
 
 To build a sortable date string from that, you'll need   to join the bits together and   to make sure the month and day fields are two digits long. Something like this: 
 
 Once you have that, you should be able to use  , as they'll be in a sortable format. However if you still need to convert them to actual datetime fields, you can wrap the whole thing in   to get a timestamp value. 
 So you'd end up with something like this: 
 
 However, be aware that this will be  massively  slower than if the field was just a simple timestamp in the first place. And you should definitely make sure you have an index on the year, month and day fields. 
 
 The simplest way to do this is: 
 
 LPAD is not necessary as @pbarney pointed out earlier. If you are comparing with another date object, it's not strictly necessary to wrap it with DATE as MySQL will cast it automatically: 
 
 
 Try to use CONCAT()  and make it one field and compare . 
 Am not sure you can compare it as date after concatenation. 
 You can compare as integer. 
 concatinate year month day and make an integer like this 20101017  and compare. 
 Hopefully :) 
 