*** create-mysql-table-directly-from-csv-file-using-the-csv-storage-engine ***

 I just learned that Mysql has a Native  CSV storage engine  which stores data in a Comma Separated Value file per table. 
 Is it possible to create a table directly from a uploaded CSV file, something like: 
 CREATE TABLE USERS < PATH/USERS.CSV 
 where users.csv is uploaded by the user? 
 
 This is not possible. To create table you need a table schema. What you have is a data file. Schema cannot be created with it. What you can do is check if your file has header row. In that case you can create table using that header row but manually. 
 However there is a way to generate create table statement by a batch file as described by  John Swapceinski in the comment section of MySQL manual . 
 
 Posted by John Swapceinski on September 5 2011 5:33am. 
  Create a table using the .csv file's header: 
 
 
 
 Just discovered  csvkit , which is a set of unix command line tools for CSV files.  Installed on my Mac with   and the command was: 
 
 You can alternatively provide a db connection string and it can load the table directly. 
 
 I'm recommended use MySQL Workbench where is import data. Workbench allows the user to create a new table from a file in CSV or JSON format. It handles table schema and data import in just a few clicks through the wizard. 
 In MySQL Workbench, use the context menu on table list and click  . 
 
 More from the MySQL Workbench  6.5.1 Table Data Export and Import Wizard  documentation.  Download MySQL Workbench here . 
 
 I know that this is a little bit stale as a topic, but there is an easier way -- IF -- you are using phpmyadmin as your mysql front end.   
 1)Create a database with just default settings. 
 2)Select the database. 
 3)Click "Import" at the top of the screen. 
 4)Select CSV under "Format". 
 5)Choose the options appropriate to your csv file (open the csv file in a text editor and reference it to get 'appropriate' options). 
 If you muck it up, no problem, simply drop the database and try again. 
 
 This is what helped me. Just add your csv file and you are good to go. 
 http://www.convertcsv.com/csv-to-sql.htm 
 
 In addition to the other solutions mentioned Mac users may want to note that SQL Pro has a CSV import option which works fairly well and is flexible - you can change column names, and field types on import.  Choose new table otherwise the initial dialogue can appear somewhat disheartening. 
 SQL Pro:   http://www.sequelpro.com 
Sequel Pro - database management application for working with MySQL databases    
 
 if someone is looking for php solutin: 
 Package:  https://github.com/uzi88/PHP_MySQL_wrapper 
 
 
 I adopted the script from shiplu.mokadd.im to fit my needs. Whom it interests: 
 
 
 I have made a Windows command line tool that do just that.   
 You can download it here:  http://commandline.dk/csv2ddl.htm 
 Usage: 
 
 Or 
 
 
 MySQL for excel plugin can help you. 
 http://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.6/en/mysql-for-excel.html 
 Open your CSV file in excel. You can use this plugin to export excel data into a new table of remote or local mysql server.
It will analyze your data (top 100 to 1000 rows) and create a corresponding table schema. 
 
 This is not possible, you can however overwrite an existing table file. But be sure, that the line endings in your file are unix style (ending only with \n), not windows style (ending with \r\n), whether you are working under windows or not.  
 
 If you're ok with using Python, Pandas worked great for me (csvsql hanged forever for my case). Something like: 
 
 Also this doesn't solve the "using CSV engine" part which was part of the question but might me useful as well. 
 