*** creating-a-search-form-in-php-to-search-a-database ***

 I am currently trying to complete a project where the specifications are to use a search form to search through a packaging database. The database has lots of variables ranging from Sizes, names, types and meats. I need to create a search form where users can search using a number of different searches (such as searching for a lid tray that is 50 cm long).  
 I have spent all day trying to create some PHP code that can search for info within a test database I created. I have had numerous amounts of errors ranging from mysql_fetch_array errors, boolean errors and now currently my latest error is that my table doesn't seem to exist. Although i can enter data into it (html and php pages where I can enter data), I don't know what is causing this and I have started again a few times now.  
 Can anyone give me some idea or tips of what I am going to have to do currently? Here is just my small tests at the moment before I move onto the actual sites SQL database.  
 Creation of database:   
 
 HTML search form page:   
 
 The PHP code I am using to attempt to gather info from the database 
(I have rewritten this a few times, this code also displays the "table.liam doesn't exist") 
 
 If anyone has any insight or can help me with this I would be very grateful! Thanks in advance. 
 
 try this out let me know what happens. 
 Form: 
 
 Form.php: 
 
 Edit: Cleaned it up a little more. 
 Final Cut (my test file): 
 
 
 You're getting errors 'table liam does not exist' because the table's name is   which is not the same as  . MySQL table names are case sensitive. 
 
 Are you sure, that specified database and table exists? Did you try to look at your database using any database client? For example command-line MySQL client bundled with MySQL server. Or if you a developer newbie, there are dozens of a GUI and web interface clients (HeidiSQL, MySQL Workbench, phpMyAdmin and many more). So first check, if your table creation script was successful and had created what it have to. 
 BTW why do you have a script for creating the database structure? It's usualy a nonrecurring operation, so write the script to do this is unneeded. It's useful only in case of need of repeatedly creating and manipulating the database structure on the fly. 
 