*** detecting-sql-server-utilization-with-a-query ***

 My current project will send queries to an sql server constantly and It may use 100% of the memory or CPU.  
 
 How can I check if the server is nearing full utilization in a stored procedure so that I can decide whether to execute the queries or not or save some settings in a table so that the following queries can know the workload is high and decide what to do 
 If not, how can I prevent SQL server to reach full utilization? 
 
 More information about the case: 
Right now I know our current test server can process 40-50 queries per second (one specific stored procedure). And now we'll decide how many queries are sent to the server every second. If we set the amount even 1 higher than the expected, in the long run, the queries will eventually fill the virtual memory and out client will have to restart their sql server instance periodically. 
 Expected Results (For bounty hunters):  
 
 Any ideas are welcomed. Thanks. 
 
 Would something like this help you? 
 Script To Monitor Memory Usage By SQL Server Instance 
 
 For any such intensive use of SQL Server and effort to fine tune it, I assume that the (virtual) machine is dedicated to SQL Server. 
 Having said this, getting the machine's current percentages of CPU and memory used should do the trick: 
 
 A few things to note: 
 
  is a good source for the machine's physical-memory usage.  It provides similar information about the machine's page-file usage.  In my experience, its information changes frequently - multiple queries against it within a second yielding different results. 
  is a good source for the machine's CPU usage, but it is not updated as frequently - every minute from what I have seen.  Maybe you can affect this if you need more real-time information. 
 The CPU-usage value in   is an integer, but I made   a   per your spec.  Since the stored proc uses two   params, you could refactor CPU-usage determination to provide a fractional portion without changing its callers. 
 
 
 Not sure how to do this in SQL but you can always create a function in C# and then make it available in your SQL Server as stored procedure using CRL. 
 http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/ms131094.aspx 
 