*** entity-relationship-diagram-software ***

 I'm looking for a tool that generates DB diagrams. 
 
 Free (open source maybe) 
 Works in Linux (cross-platform maybe) 
 Supports PostgreSQL/MySQL 
 
 
 draw.io  is free and  open source  (I work on the project). It does work on Linux and has a generic SQL import, under Arrange->Insert->SQL. 
 You can save either locally, or directly to Google Drive, OneDrive or Dropbox. There's also a  Desktop version  available. 
 
 I work on the project. 
 
 MySQL Workbench  is a good tool for working with its namesake that does ERD modeling. I've used it on both Windows and Ubuntu.  
 
 If you are looking for an entity relationship model (not relational model) you have to try Dia  http://dia-installer.de/ 
 This software works on linux/windows/mac. And have a branch on git. 
 The entity relationship model has the purpose of make a model of the problem and let you understand the problem, so in the end you can generate a good relational model to have the most efficient model for you database. 
 This software is not intended to generate mysql tables directly but it has a plugin to convert Dia diagrams to sql, you can check it out in the same  link . 
 
 You might want to try  PowerArchitect 
It's Java based (therefor cross-platform) and I have used it successfully with PostgreSQL 
 If you do want to spent some money (albeit not much), have a look at  DbWrench  which offers more features than PowerArchitect  
 Another open source/cross-platform option is  Mogwai ERDesigner . Although there is one thing that I really don't like about it: if requires a connection to a database (to validate/define datatypes) which I find a very limiting requirement. 
 
 I use  Software Ideas Modeler  for entity relationship diagrams. It could meet your requirements - it's not open source but it has a free version, it works in Linux via Mono and it supports MySQL. 
 
 If you are looking for some software to auto generate ER diagram from existing database then you will love this tool:  http://schemaspy.org/ 
 