*** free-desktop-client-for-oracle ***

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                            As it currently stands, this question is not a good fit for our Q&A format. We expect answers to be supported by facts, references,   or expertise, but this question will likely solicit debate, arguments, polling, or extended discussion. If you feel that this question   can be improved and possibly reopened,  visit the help center  for guidance.
                            
                         
 
 
 Closed  7 years ago . 
 
 
 Which is the best  Open Source  free client for querying an Oracle database? 
It may additionally support other databases (MySQL, Postgres etc), since our development environment often requires switching between different databases. 
 
 I have been using the Oracle SQL Developer (because it's free) and at first hated every minute spent with it. I am still having weird problems with graphics, as it's running on Vista and there seems to be some sort of graphics driver problem (luckily, no-one can get it to run properly on Vista, so I am not alone in this), which makes its use quite cumbersome. 
 Nevertheless I had to learn how to cope with it and now I must admit it's a neat and very useful tool (NOT ONLY) for querying an Oracle database. I suppose you could query other DBs from it as well, for instance I have used it to query some legacy MS Access DBs, and so I believe you could query SQL Server as well. 
 You can do data migrations, imports/exports, see OWA output, and allegedly also DEBUG (step through, set breakpoints, etc...) PL/SQL code, but I haven't tried this. I have been fine with sqlplus command-line so far :) Do give it a try, and don't let the Vista-related graphics problems give you a wrong impression :) 
 
 If by open-source you really mean free, then  Oracle SQL Developer  is free.  However it is not open-source.  It is fully supported though, we use it where I work all the time. 
 If you're interested you can go  here  for a good starting reference on its features. 
 
 SQLTools is free and clean light weight client.
 www.sqltools.net 
 
 What kind of "client" do you mean? Do you mean the actual drivers, or just an application you can get SQL results from? eg,  SQuirrel SQL 
 
 Well Oracle provide SQL Developer for free, which is basically an Oracle IDE - lets you browse tables, code editor for PLSQL, SQL query window etc ... 
 
 If you use a mac, You can try  macsequel - a native mac client for oracle . 
 
 One answer (for any platform and database) is just use ODBC.  E.g. on POSIX,  unixODBC .  Oracle of course supports the standard with  their own drivers . 
 