*** free-sql-comparison-tool ***

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                            As it currently stands, this question is not a good fit for our Q&A format. We expect answers to be supported by facts, references,   or expertise, but this question will likely solicit debate, arguments, polling, or extended discussion. If you feel that this question   can be improved and possibly reopened,  visit the help center  for guidance.
                            
                         
 
 
 Closed  7 years ago . 
 
 
 I have been using SQL Compare by Redgate at my company and was very satisfied with it. Are there any free comparison tools that are similar? Or what would be my best shot for synchronizing two SQL db's without a paid application 
 
 I’ve gone through this and couldn’t find anything comparable, free or otherwise. $395 is a very small price to pay for the value the tool brings and it will almost certainly pay for itself very quickly in productivity gains and risk minimisation. 
 
 I had the same problem and wanted a free GUI base Schema comparer tool, what I found was
Star Inix ( http://www.starinix.com/sqlcompare02.htm ).  Obviously not as good as Redgates offering, but it does the job. 
 Also, with Redgate Sql Compare, once the trial period is over, if you enter the key as "i need more time" (without the quotes) you can extend the trial by a further 14 days. 
 
 Visual Studio (Premium & above I guess) has this feature built-in under the SQL menu. 
 
 xSQL Free Bundle 
 Very similar to RedGate's SQL Compare and free. 
 
 You can try using TableDiff , that came with SQL Server 2005. 
 Tablediff Utility 
 SQL Server 2005 TableDiff Utility 
 Bye. 
 
 Have a look at  Mighty Comparer . It's currently free. A professional version is under development. 
 
 I normally go for the hackish but surprisingly effective technique of downloading the  sys_information  tables to text files and diffing them with your favorite diff program (this way will even let you compare 3 schemas!).  
 
 You can use  Database Comparer 
 Database Comparer is free for non-commercial use. 
 