*** generate-table-relationship-diagram-from-existing-schema-sql-server ***

 
 
 
 
 
 Closed.  This question is  off-topic . It is not currently accepting answers.
                            
                         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Want to improve this question?   Update the question  so it's  on-topic  for Stack Overflow.
                         
 Closed  6 years ago . 
 
 
 
 Is there a way to produce a diagram showing existing tables and their relationships given a connection to a database? 
 This is for SQL Server 2008 Express Edition. 
 
 Yes you can use SQL Server 2008 itself but you need to install SQL Server Management Studio Express (if not installed ) . Just right Click on Database Diagrams and create new diagram. Select the exisiting tables and if you have specified the references in your tables properly. You will be able to see the complete diagram of selected tables. 
For further reference see  Getting started with SQL Server database diagrams 
 
 Try DBVis - download at  https://www.dbvis.com/download  - there is a pro version (not needed) and a open version that should suffice. 
 All you have to do is to get the right JDBC - database driver for SQL Server, the tool shows tables and references orthogonal, hierarchical, in a circle ;-) etc. just by pressing one single button. I use the free version for years now. 
 
 SQLDeveloper can do this. 
 http://sqldeveloper.solyp.com/ 
 
 For SQL statements you can try reverse snowflakes. You can join at  sourceforge  or the demo site at  http://snowflakejoins.com/ . 
 
 Why don't you just use the database diagram functionality built into SQL Server? 
 
 Visio Professional has a database reverse-engineering feature if yiu create a database diagram.  It's not free but is fairly ubiquitous in most companies and should be fairly easy to get. 
 Note that Visio 2003 does not play nicely with SQL2005 or SQL2008 for reverse engineering - you will need to get 2007. 
 
 DeZign for Databases  should be able to do this just fine. 
 
 SchemaCrawler for SQL Server  can generate database diagrams, with the help of GraphViz. Foreign key relationships are displayed (and can even be inferred, using naming conventions), and tables and columns can be excluded using regular expressions. 
 
 MySQL WorkBench is free software and is developed by Oracle, you can import an SQL File or specify a database and it will generate an SQL Diagram which you can move around to make it more visually appealing.
It runs on GNU/Linux and Windows and it's free and has a professional look.. 
 