*** generate-insert-script-for-selected-records ***

 I have a table with the following data: 
 
 I want to generate Insert script for migrating records whose Fk_CompanyId is 1. 
 There is an insert script option to generate script for all records but I want to filter some records to migrate to another database. 
 
 If you are using the SQL Management Studio, you can right click your DB name and select 
Tasks > Import/Export data and follow the wizard. 
one of the steps is called "Specify Table Copy or Query" where there is an option to write a query to specify the data to transfer, so you can simply specify the following query: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 If possible use Visual Studio. The Microsoft SQL Server Data Tools (SSDT) bring a built in functionallity for this since the March 2014 release: 
 
 Open Visual Studio 
 Open "View" → "SQL Server Object Explorer" 
 Add a connection to your Server 
 Expand the relevant database 
 Expand the "Tables" folder 
 Right click on relevant table 
 Select "View Data" from context menu 
 In the new window, viewing the data use the "Sort and filter
dataset" functionality in the tool bar to apply your filter. Note that this functionality is limited and you can't write explizit SQL queries. 
 After you have applied your filter and see only the data you want, click on "Script" or "Script to file" in the tool bar 
 Voilà - Here you have your insert skript for your filtered data 
 
 Note: Be careful, the "View Data" window is just like SSMS "Edit Top 200 Rows"- you can edit data right away 
 (Testet with Visual Studio 2015 with Microsoft SQL Server Data Tools (SSDT) Version 14.0.60812.0 and Microsoft SQL Server 2012) 
 
 You could create a view with your criteria and then export the view? 
 
 In SSMS execute your sql query. From the result window select all cells and copy the values. Goto  below website  and there you can paste the copied data and generate sql scripts. You can also save results of query from SSMS as CSV file and import the csv file in  this  website. 
 http://www.convertcsv.com/csv-to-sql.htm 
 
 I created the following  : 
 
 Then you can use it that way: 
 
 The output would be something like that: 
 
 If you just want to get a range of rows, use the   parameter as bellow: 
 
 
 If you are using Oracle SQL Developer then it would be 
 
 Run this as a script 
 
 I ended up doing this in 2 steps. Selected the records I want into a new table in the database then generated a SQL data only script in SSMS. I did find and replace on the generated script and removed the table. 
 