*** hibernate-entities-from-multiple-databases ***

 Our data model is separated into schemas on two databases. The schemas are used in isolation except for a few single-key relationships that bridge between the two. There are no write transactions that will span both databases. 
 Similar to this question  Doing a join over 2 tables in different databases using Hibernate , we want to use Hibernate to handle joining the entities. We cannot use the database solution (Federated views on DB2). 
 We have set up Hibernate with two separate database configurations (Doctor and Patient), which works perfectly when using DAOs to explicitly access a particular session. 
 We want to use Hibernate to automatically retrieve the entity when we call   Where examination contains an id pointing to the Patient table on the other database. 
 One way I've tried doing this is using a custom UserType: 
 
 Which would then be used: 
 
 The UserType works - the data is loaded correctly with only the Id of the field persisted to the database. I have tested very simple examples of   and   and both seem to work great, however I think this is a terrible hack and I do not have adequate knowledge of Hibernate to know if this is safe to use. 
 Is there a better way to achieve what we want? Is the way I've described here adequate, or will it cause difficulties in the future? 
 
 I don't think it's a good idea. You're trying to make "as if" everything was in a single database, whereas it's not the case. And you make "as if" there was a real   association between an exam and a patient, although it's not a real association. 
 Although you are conscious of this fact, other or future developers won't necessarily be, and will wonder why it's not possible to make a query such as 
 
 or 
 
 In short, your pseudo-association only fulfills a very small part of the contract a regular association offers, and this will, IMO, cause more confusion than comfort. 
 Nothing stops you from having a utility method like 
 
 that does the same thing, but makes it clear that there is no real asociation between both entities. 
 