*** how-do-i-check-the-records-of-my-heroku-database ***

 I've just deployed my application to heroku and pointed my custom domain to the heroku servers. How can I check the records in my heroku database? 
 
 You can use   and look at your records with   or any other method. 
 If you want to backup the database look at  heroku PG backups , you then can import your database on your local machine and look at it there. Depending on your db adapter you could use  sqlite browser  for sqlite3 or  phpmyadmin  for MySQL. 
 
 I found a similar question like this and here is what @Chowlett says: 
 "You could run   to fire up a Postgres console, then issue   to see all tables, and   to see details for a particular table." 
 You can also type   to view the table contents. 
 How to view current database schema for Heroku app in Terminal? 
 
 heroku db:pull to pull your production DB locally to take a peek in it. 
 
 I'll give the method for connecting via a GUI tool 
 Run the following command to get the database credentials from Heroku: 
 
 Then you can use a GUI tool like PG Commander or PGAdmin to connect to the db 
 
 Heroku now has an add-on named PostgreSQL Studio (currently free & in beta) that would let you access your database from within the browser, without having to use CLI, much like PHP MyAdmin. 
 To attach this add-on to your application,  
 
 Then go to the list of add-ons on Heroku, select PostgreSQL Studio, authorize it, select the database to connect with from the dropdown list of all databases and it will take you to the web-based interface to handle your selected database. 
 You may refer to this official article on Heroku:
 https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/pgstudio 
 
 The easy answer is: 
 
 heroku pg:info 
 
 
 You can also download a client side Postgres, like Postico, and using the information provided in that URL to enter password and database name etc, then you can create locally, just like phpMyAdmin. 
 
 I use the admin_data gem, works well in Heroku. 
 
 You can use heroku dataclips that allows to run queries online. Here you can find documentation  https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/dataclips . 
 
 Connect to the database using Sequel Pro. You can find your ClearDB url using   command. The structure for connecting is as follows: 
 
 