*** how-to-display-table-data-more-clearly-in-oracle-sqlplus ***

 I want to be able to display the resulting data from a select in a pretty way, not all columns under others. 
 Here is the way sqlplus displays my table data: 
 
 But I want to show them as: 
 
 Not each column under the other 
 
 I usually start with something like: 
 
 Have a look at   if you have the help information installed. And then   rather than   if you really only want those two columns. 
 
 If you mean you want to see them like this: 
 
 then in SQL Plus you can set the column widths like this (for example): 
 
 You can also specify the line size and page size if necessary like this: 
 
 You do this by typing those commands into SQL Plus before running the query.  Or you can put these commands and the query into a script file e.g. myscript.sql and run that.  For example: 
 
 
 You can set the line size as per the width of the window and set wrap off using the following command. 
 
 I have used 160 as per my preference you can set it to somewhere between   and setting wrap will not your data and it will display the data properly. 
 
 In case you have a dump made with sqlplus and the output is garbled as someone did not set those 3 values before, there's a way out. 
 Just a couple hours ago DB admin send me that ugly looking output of query executed in sqlplus (I dunno, maybe he hates me...). I had to find a way out: this is an awk script to parse that output to make it at least more readable. It's far not perfect, but I did not have enough time to polish it properly. Anyway, it does the job quite well. 
 
 In case anyone else would like to try improve this script, below are the variables:
hnames -- column names in the header, hdash - dashed below the header, h -- whether I'm currently parsing header (then ==1), val -- the data, _d -
- to swap between hnames and hdash, ln0 - last line read, ln1 - line read previously (it's the one i'm actually working with), ln2 - line read before ln1 
 Happy parsing! 
 Oh, almost forgot... I use this to prettify sqlplus output myself: 
 
 colsep is optional, but it makes output look like sqlite which is easier to parse using scripts. 
 EDIT: 
A little preview of parsed and non-parsed output 
 
 