*** how-does-mysql-auto-increment-work ***

 I was just creating a new table using MySQL Query Browser, and noticed there's a tick under Auto Increment Column. How does that work? 
 When adding to the database programatically, do I just add a number, and then the database automatically increments that number? 
 Everytime a NEW user registers on my site, I want their Customer ID (integer only) to auto increment, so I don't have to try and randomly generate a unique number. 
 Can this be done simply? 
 Thank you! 
 
 
 When adding to the database programatically, do I just add a number, and then the database automatically increments that number? 
 
 Yes, that's the way   works.  
 
 The value will be incremented for each new row 
 The value is unique, duplicates are not possible 
 If a row is deleted, the   column of that row will not be re-assigned. 
 The   value of the last inserted row can be accessed using the mySQL function   but it  must  be called right after the insert query, in the same database connection 
 
 mySQL Reference 
 
 1 more,
You can insert your own value also (ie your random value).  
 
 Yes. Auto_Increment columns work like they say on the tin. Tips 
 
 when INSERT - ing, use NULL or omit the column 
 Use LAST_INSERT_ID() (or API equivalents) to obtain the last generated value.  
 for security and business logic reasons, it's usually better form to not directly use a key value for a customer identifier. Consider using Hashed / randomised surrogate customer keys instead. 
 
 Ta 
 
 When you enable Auto Increment an ID will always get automatically added whenever a new record is made.. Example: 
 If you have 1 record with ID 1 in your table and you add a new record, the ID will automatically be 2. 
 
 Yes, that's the exact purpose of  . It looks at whatever is the current increment value for that table, and stores that value plus 1 for the new row that comes in, automatically. You can omit that field from your   statements and MySQL will handle it for you for every new row that comes in, giving each row its own unique ID. 
 