*** how-to-skip-duplicate-records-when-importing-in-phpmyadmin ***

 I have a db on my local machine and I want to import the data to the db on my hosting. Both db's are identical, the same  ,  , etc. 
 When I   the table from my local db through   and   it through phpmyadmin on my hosting an error pops up telling me that there are duplicate entries for the   and stops the whole operation. 
 How can I import the data through phpmyadmin, skip the duplicate entries, and display a list of the duplicates at the end of the process? 
 A solution that I can do is call all the values of the primary key in the db at my hosting and filter the duplicates before import. BUT I am wondering if there is a quick solution for this with phpmyadmin? 
 
 In phpMyAdmin , in Settings tab, you can try checking the following values: 
 
 Settings -> SQL Queries -> Ignore multiple statement errors 
 
 If you are using CSV format: 
 
 Settings -> Import -> CSV -> Do not abort on INSERT error 
 
 If you are using SQL format: 
 
 Settings -> Export -> SQL -> Use ignore inserts 
 
 
 There are a couple of ways to do what you want: 
 The brutal way: 
 
 Then import, but you might loose data, so perhaps create a backup table. All things considered, just don't do this, check the alternatives listed below: 
 Write your own   query, with   clause: 
 
 But, since you are importing a file, the query will, most likely be a  . As you can see in  the manual , you can easily add an   to that query, too: 
 
 That's it. Don't worry if you're not too comfortable writing your own queries like this, there are other ways of doing what you want to do: 
The CLI way: 
 
 Also CLI, create a file containing the   query above, then: 
 
 This requires you to have access to the command line, and run this command  Here's the manual page of MySQL 
 Using phpMyAdmin, when importing, you'll find a checkbox saying  "Ignore duplicates" , check that and import.  Here's a page with screenshots 
You could also choose to check  "Ignore errors" , but that's another brute-force approach, and I wouldn't recommend that. 
 