*** how-sid-is-different-from-service-name-in-oracle-tnsnames-ora ***

 Why do I need two of them? When I have to use one or another? 
 
 @DAC 
 
 In short: SID = the unique name of
  your DB, ServiceName = the alias used
  when connecting 
 
 Not strictly true.. SID = unique name of the INSTANCE (eg the oracle process running on the machine). Oracle considers the "Database" to be the files. 
 Service Name = alias to an INSTANCE (or many instances). The main purpose of this is if you are running a cluster, the client can say "connect me to SALES.acme.com", the DBA can on the fly change the number of instances which are available to SALES.acme.com requests, or even move SALES.acme.com to a completely different database without the client needing to change any settings. 
 
 Please see:  http://www.sap-img.com/oracle-database/finding-oracle-sid-of-a-database.htm 
 
 What is the difference between Oracle
  SIDs and Oracle SERVICE NAMES. One
  config tool looks for SERVICE NAME and
  then the next looks for SIDs! What's
  going on?! 
 Oracle SID is the unique name that
  uniquely identifies your
  instance/database where as Service
  name is the TNS alias that you give
  when you remotely connect to your
  database and this Service name is
  recorded in Tnsnames.ora file on your
  clients and it can be the same as SID
  and you can also give it any other
  name you want. 
 SERVICE_NAME is the new feature from
  oracle 8i onwards in which database
  can register itself with listener. If
  database is registered with listener
  in this way then you can use
  SERVICE_NAME parameter in tnsnames.ora
  otherwise - use SID in tnsnames.ora. 
 Also if you have OPS (RAC) you will
  have different SERVICE_NAME for each
  instance. 
 SERVICE_NAMES specifies one or more
  names for the database service to
  which this instance connects. You can
  specify multiple services names in
  order to distinguish among different
  uses of the same database. For
  example: 
 SERVICE_NAMES = sales.acme.com,
  widgetsales.acme.com 
 You can also use service names to
  identify a single service that is
  available from two different databases
  through the use of replication. 
 In an Oracle Parallel Server
  environment, you must set this
  parameter for every instance. 
 
 In short: SID = the unique name of your DB instance, ServiceName = the alias used when connecting 
 
 I know this is ancient however when dealing with finicky tools, uses, users or symptoms re: sid & service naming one can add a little flex to your tnsnames entries as like: 
 
 I just thought I'd leave this here as it's mildly relevant to the question and can be helpful when attempting to weave around some less than clear idiosyncrasies of oracle networking. 
 
 
 what is a SID and Service name 
 
 please look into oracle's documentation at  https://docs.oracle.com/cd/B19306_01/network.102/b14212/concepts.htm 
 In case if the above link is not accessable in future, At the time time of writing this answer, the above link will direct you to, "Database Service and Database Instance Identification" topic in Connectivity Concepts chapter of "Database Net Services Administrator's Guide". This guide is published by oracle as part of "Oracle Database Online Documentation, 10g Release 2 (10.2)" 
 
 When I have to use one or another? Why do I need two of them? 
 
 Consider below mapping in a RAC Environment, 
 SID      SERVICE_NAME  
bob1                    bob 
bob2                   bob 
bob3                    bob 
bob4                    bob 
 if load balancing is configured, the listener will 'balance' the workload across all four SIDs. Even if load balancing is configured, you can connect to bob1 all the time if you want to by using the SID instead of SERVICE_NAME. 
 Please refer,  https://community.oracle.com/thread/4049517 
 
 As per Oracle Glossary :  
 
 SID is a unique name for an Oracle database instance. ---> To switch
  between Oracle databases, users must specify the desired SID <---. The
  SID is included in the CONNECT DATA parts of the connect descriptors
  in a TNSNAMES.ORA file, and in the definition of the network listener
  in the LISTENER.ORA file. Also known as System ID. Oracle Service Name
  may be anything descriptive like "MyOracleServiceORCL". In Windows,
  You can your Service Name running as a service under Windows Services. 
 
 You should use SID in TNSNAMES.ORA as a better approach. 
 