*** how-to-schedule-a-job-for-sql-query-to-run-daily ***

 I need to know how to make a SQL query run daily using a SQL Server Agent job, with minimum required configuration settings. 
 
 
 Expand the SQL Server Agent node and right click the Jobs node in SQL Server Agent and select  
 In the   window enter the name of the job and a description on the   tab. 
 Select   on the left hand side of the window and click   at the bottom. 
 In the   window enter a step name and select the database you want the query to run against. 
 Paste in the T-SQL command you want to run into the Command window and click  . 
 Click on the   menu on the left of the New Job window and enter the schedule information (e.g. daily and a time). 
 Click   - and that should be it. 
 
 (There are of course other options you can add - but I would say that is the bare minimum you need to get a job set up and scheduled) 
 
 I made an animated GIF of the steps in the accepted answer. This is from MSSQL Server 2012 
 
 
 To do this in t-sql, you can use the following system stored procedures to schedule a daily job. This example schedules daily at 1:00 AM. See Microsoft help for details on syntax of the individual stored procedures and valid range of parameters. 
 
 
 Using T-SQL:
My job is executing stored procedure. You can easy change   to run your sql. 
 
 
 Here's a sample code: 
 
 
 if You want daily backup // following sql script store in C:\Users\admin\Desktop\DBScript\DBBackUpSQL.sql 
 
 open the Task scheduler 
 create task-> select   tab Select   . 
 Button Select Daily Radio button  
 click   Button  
 then click   tab Select New. 
 Button Put   -S ADMIN-PC -i   in the program/script text box(make sure Match your files path and Put the double quoted path in start-> search box and if it find then click it and see the backup is there or not) 
 -- the above path may be insted 100 write 90    
 then click ok button  
 the Script will execute on time which you select on Trigger tab on daily basis 
 enjoy it............. 
 