*** how-to-iterate-over-a-date-range-in-pl-sql ***

 I need to write a report that generates summary totals against a table with date ranges for each record. 
 
 What I want out is basically this: 
 
 I am having a hard time figuring out how to iterate over a date range.  I am sure this is some simple cursor that could be created for this but I am at a loss.  Preferably in PL/SQL 
 UPDATE: 
 I ended up using the example  here  to accomplish what I wanted to do.  This creates a function that generates a table of dates. 
 
 You will need some sort of calendar to loop through a range of date. I have built one using the  connect by level  trick. You can then join the calendar with your data (cross join since you want a row even when there is no option for that day): 
 
 
 One solution that I use for this is to convert the date range into an integer range that you can use in a for loop, then convert back to a date to do stuff with it.  You can't do any joins or anything this way, but it's a much smaller solution that those already posted: 
 
 
 Just as an addition to the other techniques, one way I iterate over dates is the following: 
 
 
 Here is an answer based on an answer above:
It uses a start and end date: 
 It lists all of the days of 07/01/2013 to 07/31/2013. Easily adaptable to any date range. 
 
 
 This type of query is best handled if you have a second "utility" table, which you can use for just about any query where you need to convert ranges into specific buckets.  The utility table is nothing more than a list of numbers: 
 
 IF we assume that you want to display 30 days, e.g. 
 
 The idea is that you create a Cartesian product between your iterator table and your table with the range, then filter out all the cases where your range conditions aren't met.  You can use this in many places, and is one of the best examples why it is better to model your data with ranges as opposed to discrete intervals - because you can always convert easily to discrete intervals using this technique. 
 edit:  I really shouldn't use BETWEEN for date range queries - I changed it to >= < 
 
 
 