*** how-to-access-the-picasa-desktop-database ***

 Is there any way to read the Picasa database?  
 What is the format of the Picasa database? 
 Are there any APIs to access the database? 
 
 In Picasa 3 at least, the internal database is stored in a set of   files that sits alongside the   files, in one of the standard locations for Picasa's application data. On the Mac for instance, it is under  
 Rather confusingly, the   files don't contain the database, they are just containers that hold thumbnail previews for various groups of images. They are in the standard Windows   format,  more information from this answer. 
 The   files contain the database, and are in a non-standard format. There is a cluster of files per table, with one file per field. The filenames for a given table share the same prefix. For example, the data in the   table comes from this set of files: 
 
 which has three fields,  ,   and  . I've written up  some partial notes in a blog  on the format of these files as of Picasa 3.9.0.522, as well as a small java program to dump out as much of the data as I've been able to understand. 
 
 You can try to read the Picasa database using the exportpicasa utility ( http://sourceforge.net/projects/exportpicasa/ ). It's beta and feedbacks are welcome. 
 
 To me it looks like there is no 'database' per se. 
 There is a file that lists the folders picasa 'watches', for vista it is in  
 
 and for XP in  
 
 Inside the watched folders there are   and   files that store some data. 
 All of these files are human readable, so they should be parseable pretty easily. 
 Any modern image library should be able to parse the IPTC data (in python try "from PIL import IptcImagePlugin") 
 More info 
 How tags etc. are stored in picasa 
 
 In the database folder (on Windows 7: C:\Users\User\AppData\Local\Google\Picasa2\db3), there are some  pmp  files representing the following tables: 
 
 albumdata, list of the albums (folders and faces) with some metadata 
 catdata, list of category 
 imagedata, list of the images indexed in Picasa with a lot of interesting information like the width, height, face album, tags, ... but no actual filename 
 
 Each pmp file contains all the data of one column of the table. The filename name follow the schema  table _*column*.pmp. The file itself is in a binary format. 
 Then, the filenames (for the pictures, or the path of the folders) are inside the file  thumbindex.db , which is binary and different from the pmp files. 
 Detailed explanation of the 2 binary formats:  How to Read Picasa 3.9 Database and extract faces data 
 
 There's more data in  . 
 The thumbs*.db seems to be a concatenation of .jpg images. 
 seems like a proprietary file format... 
 