*** how-to-duplicate-a-mysql-database-on-the-same-server ***

 I have a large MySQL database, lets call it  , which I want to replicate on the same machine to provide a test system to play around with ( ), including table structure and data.
In regular intervals I want to update the   with the content of the  ; if possible incremental. 
 Is there some built-in mechanism in MySQL to do that? I think that master-slave replication is not the thing I want since it should be possible to alter data in the  . These changes do not have to be preserved, though. 
 Regards, 
 CGD 
 
 The   command line client will accept a stream of SQL statements from standard input.  You can therefore pipe the output of   directly into   on the command line.  Doing this as a cron job will regularly overwrite your test data with updated live data: 
 
 Note that since your data is large, it will take a long time. 
 
 Michaels answer abowe works well but does not copy events, stored procedures or triggers. 
 To copy those a few more switches is needed for mysqldump:
 
 To complement an already made copy: 
 
 
 In case you prefer MySQL Migration Toolkit, you may double click on schema name in Data Mapping step and change target schema name. 
 
 For all the mac users, with sequel pro all you need to do is go to database (menu) -> Duplicate database. Done! 
 
 The problem with MySQLdump is that while it dumps, the live database is either unusable, very awkward to use, or the backup will not be consistent. Unless you have a wide enough time window when the unusability of the live database is not important because the database needs not be in use anyway (for example late at night). 
 Another possibility if you have space to spare - and, nowadays, 20 Gb is not that much - is that of using an ancillary database. 
 You can install  a second copy of MySQL Server  on a different port, and have it be the slave. Then you will have two identical databases (live master, live slave). 
 When you need to clone the test database, stop the slave replication - the live slave will now remain "frozen" in time - and backup the live slave to the test db, using MySQLbackup or just copying the data files. Once done, you restart the replication. 
 The impact on the live master is negligible, and the slave can actually be used for non-update-critical selects. 
 
 This solution works fine, but it won't do the deal if you are using PHPunit for unit testing. 
 Using password in command line generates a warning which is catch by PHPUnit and generate an exception (yeah quite a big deal...) 
 The way to work around this is to use configuration file.  
 In my case, I don't want to maintain password and user both in configuration files and PHP code, so I generate the configuration file from the code and check out if it exists (otherwise I use the username and password directly in command line as a fall back option). 
 Here's an example, in PHP, how to copy a setup database to create a new one with a different name (if you are, by example, managing a main domain with a different subdomain/database for each of your customer): 
 
 Additional note: 
 
 I had to use double quote (") instead of single quote (') around my SQL statements. 
 I had to use the ampersand (&) to separate my different command. 
 This example doesn't include the validation for the new database name (isDestinationDbNameValid() method). No need to mention that you should never trust user input... 
 You also have to write your custom method to validate that the database copy worked as expected (isDestinationDbExist() method). 
You should at least validate that the database exist, a table from your setup exist and, optionally, validate for stored programs. 
 
 Use the force wisely my friends, 
 Jonathan Parent-Lévesque from Montreal 
 