*** how-is-mysql-data-stored-on-disk ***

 
 
 
 
 
 Closed.  This question is  off-topic . It is not currently accepting answers.
                            
                         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Want to improve this question?   Update the question  so it's  on-topic  for Stack Overflow.
                         
 Closed  6 years ago . 
 
 
 
 I've used mysql before, but I don't understand how it works internally.  Can someone point me to a good resource on what the internal representation of the the data on disk looks like that also might discuss how things are searched and accessed so quickly?  Better yet, can someone come up with a high level succinct explanation? 
 
 MySQL Server uses disk space in several ways, primarily for directories and files that are found under a single location known as the server's data directory. The server uses its data directory to store all the following: 
 
 Database directories. Each database corresponds to a single directory under the data directory, regardless of what types of tables you create in the database. For example, a given database is represented by one directory whether it contains MyISAM tables, InnoDB tables, or a mix of the two. 
 Table format files (.frm files) that contain a description of table structure. Every table has its own .frm file, located in the appropriate database directory. This is true no matter which storage engine manages the table. 
 Data and index files are created for each table by some storage engines and placed in the appropriate database directory. For example, the MyISAM storage engine creates a data file and an index file for each table. 
 The InnoDB storage engine has its own tablespace and log files. The tablespace contains data and index information for all InnoDB tables, as well as the undo logs that are needed if a transaction must be rolled back. The log files record information about committed transactions and are used to ensure that no data loss occurs. By default, the tablespace and log files are located in the data directory. The default tablespace file is named ibdata1 and the default log files are named ib_logfile0 and ib_logfile1. (It is also possible to configure InnoDB to use one tablespace file per table. In this case, InnoDB creates the tablespace file for a given table in the table's database directory.) 
 Server log files and status files. These files contain information about the statements that the server has been processing. Logs are used for replication and data recovery, to obtain information for use in optimizing query performance, and to determine whether operational problems are occurring. 
 
 