*** how-to-open-an-accdb-file-in-ubuntu ***

 The development machine I work on has Ubuntu Jaunty Jackalope as its operating system.  I have been presented with data for a project I'm working on in the form of an .accdb file created by Microsoft Access.  I do not own a copy of Microsoft Access.  I do have Open Office installed and would be willing to install any software package available to my operating system.  Is there a way I can open or transform this file so that I can view and edit the data on my computer?  Is there another format that the Access database could be saved as that I would be able to open? 
 
 There are two open source tools available however they only work on MDB format files.   Can you ask the supplier of the ACCDB file to give it to you in MDB format? 
 MDB Tools  is a set of open source libraries and utilities to facilitate exporting data from MS Access databases (mdb files) without using the Microsoft DLLs.  
 Jackcess  is a pure Java library for reading from and writing to MS Access databases. It is part of the OpenHMS  project from Health Market Science, Inc. . It is not an application. There is no GUI. It's a library, intended for other developers to use to build Java applications.  It appears to be much newer than MDB tools, is more active and has write support. 
 
 Jackcess  now supports everything from Access 97 (read-only), 2000, 2003, 2007, and 2010 (read-write), both .mdb and .accdb files. 
 Dumping the file can be as easy as  
 
 (of course, you need a java compiler, libcommons-logging-java, libcommons-lang-java and you have to pass the .accdb filename as the first and the table name as the second parameter). 
 -Marcel 
 
 I just had this same problem on an Ubuntu 14.01 AWS EC2 instance and I was able to accomplish this task (convert   file to CSV on Ubuntu) by using  access2csv . I had to  install Git ,  install Java , and  install ant , but then was able to convert the   files I had to   by typing: 
 
 It uses  Jackcess  so you get the same functionality without having to write your own Java code to accomplish this basic task. Each table is returned as its own   file.   
 You can also access the schema by passing the   option: 
 
 Hope this is helpful. It certainly was for me. 
 
 A good format to view and work with on Linux would be CSV. 
 As the accepted answer suggests MDB Tools does the job. To export all the tables on Linux to CSV format try this command: 
 
 You can use   also into windows via WSL (Ubuntu on Windows or Debian on Windows):
Then install it in console with: 
 
 
 This may be of interest:  How to convert accdb to a postgres database 
 I am not sure if   would suit, but it might be worth a look. 
 
 I guess you want to extract data from tables, not code from modules.  I do not know specifically Ubuntu but I guess you can connect to the access file using an ODBC connection (or, if available, OLEDB connection) and extract the data? Depending on the connection type, you might still need to know the tables names in order to import them. 
 
 Microsoft Access Runtime is a free software. You can install it in Ubntu using Wine and then open the accdb database. 
 
 Im not sure if there are any native tools, but you can always install a copy of windows and install a free view for accdb files or install a trial of Access. 
 