*** how-can-i-generate-a-script-of-my-database-as-it-is ***

 My primary reason for this is to keep track of database schema changes for my application.  In SQL Server Management Studio I am able to generate a create script which creates the database but it doesn't contain any test data.  Ideally when the script is run it should DROP the existing database (assuming it already exists) and then recreating it using this new script containing schema changes and test data from my development machine. 
 So how can I generate a script that will create a database with all the tables, stored procs, triggers, views, test data, etc? 
 I've tried using the import/export functionality but that's no good because it doesn't seem to copy over stored procedures.  Plus it would be nice to have a script so I can track changes to the schema using mercurial. 
 I am using SQL Server Express 2008 R2 along with SQL Server Management Studio. 
 
 You didn't mention which version of SQL Server, but in SQL 2008 this is very easy 
 SQL 2008 
 Expand Databases  
 Right Click Database 
Choose Tasks > Generate Scripts 
 Generate and
   Publish Dialog will open  Choose your
   objects (i.e. Tables, procs, etc) 
   Click Next On the Set Scripting 
   Options choose Advanced Options  Under
   General choose   SCRIPT DROP AND
   CREATE - SCRIPT DROP AND CREATE 
    Types of Data To Script - Schema and
   Data  Close Advanced Window   Choose to
   save to file. 
 
 I wrote an open source command line utility named  SchemaZen  that does this. It's much faster than scripting from management studio and it's output is more version control friendly. It supports scripting both schema and data.  
 To generate scripts run: 
 schemazen.exe script --server localhost --database db --scriptDir c:\somedir 
 Then to recreate the database from scripts run: 
 schemazen.exe create --server localhost --database db --scriptDir c:\somedir 
 
 Watch out for difference in database collation. If you develop on a database with a case insensitive collation and try and run the SSMS generated scripts against as database with a case sensitive collation then errors in case will break the scripts. 
 
 Try  Microsoft SQL Server Database Publishing Wizard .  This is a powerful flexible tool for scripting schema / data rom SQL Server. 
 
 Personally I use  Microsoft Visual Studio 2010 Database Project  with a Source Control Repository (SVN) to track changes to the schema. 
 
 Usually i make backups fom a database before start a new development on it. 
 the best way is restore the backup when needed, i don't know how to get it by the script way! 
 