*** how-to-transform-pandas-dataframe-for-insertion-via-executemany-statement ***

 I have a fairly big pandas   or so headers and a few hundred thousand rows of data - and I'm looking to transfer this data to a database using the   module. Previously I was using   and using a simple execute statement in a for loop but this was taking ridiculously long (1000 records per 10 minutes)...  
 I'm now trying a new module and am trying to introduce   although I'm not quite sure what's meant by sequence of parameters in: 
 
 should it look like a constant list working through each header like 
 
 
 where this is an example of three rows 
 
 or what is the format that's needed? 
 as another related question, how then can I go about converting a regular pandas dataframe to this format? 
 Thanks! 
 
 You can try this: 
 
 Hope it helps. 
 
 I managed to figure this out in the end.
So if you have a Pandas Dataframe which you want to write to a database using   which is the module I used, the code is: 
 (with   as the dataframe) map dataframe values to string and store each row as a tuple in a list of tuples 
 
 for the list of tuples, change all null value signifiers - which have been captured as strings in conversion above - into a null type which can be passed to the end database. This was an issue for me, might not be for you. 
 
 create a connection to the database 
 
 define a function to turn the list of tuples into a   which is a further indexing on the list of tuples, into chunks of 1000. This was necessary for me to pass the data to the database whose SQL Query could not exceed 1MB. 
 
 define your query. 
 
 Run through the the   containing the list of tuples in groups of 1000 and perform  . Follow this by committing and closing the connection and that's it :) 
 
 
 Might be a little late to answer this question, but maybe it can still help someone.   is not implemented by many ODBC. One of the ones that does have it is  . When they refer to sequence of parameters they mean: 
 
 and for a query statement it would look something like: 
 
 Which looks like you got there. A couple things though I want to point out in case it helps: 
pandas has a  to_sql  function that inserts into a db if you provide it the connector object, and chunks the data as well. 
 To rapidly create a sequence of parameters from a pandas dataframe I found the following two methods helpful: 
 
 