*** how-can-i-run-c-sharp-app-which-contains-local-sql-server-database-on-another-co ***

 I have created a C# program with a SQL Server database. It works fine on my computer but on my friend's PC it doesn't (my friend doesn't have SQL Sever 2008). Is it possible to make it without any installation? And if it can, how can it be done? 
 This is my connection string: 
 
 
 SQL Server is for server databases. You can change your project to use SQL Server CE (SQL Server Compact Edition) which is a single-file local database. It is very similar to the "true" SQL Server so it may be the easiest solution. Your code probably wont change except for the connection string. 
 
 Use the IP address of your local machine in which the database is present;
1433 is the default port number. Then modify the connection string accordingly: 
 
 
 First time you open port 1433 in firewall if you don't need you can turn off firewall.
go to Run=>cmd=>Ipconfig find network's card activity. Show like  
 Like my computer have just wireless and my andress in private lan is:192.168.100.165
And now you change connectstring in web.config. 
 
 
 If you don't know "yourUsername" and "yourpassword" please refer link
  and create username and password in MsSQL
   https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/aa337562.aspx 
 
 And if you want to connect database  from internet you need to do open port your's router 
 
 If you want to run your program without the SQL server installed you have to use a  service based sql database. see this image 
 you can add a local database through Visual Studio (project--> Add new item) 
 
 My solution will cater if you need a SQL database on your friend's computer instead of hosting from your own. 
 The cheapest way to handle a database locally on any device using a proper database is to convert to SQLite. This is a local device alternative that is more lightweight and doesn't require any user to install a SQL server at all. 
 There are also alternatives like writing information to a hidden file (usually in binary if you don't want your application to be hacked). 
 In short, only consider a SQL database IF you are hosting the database, otherwise use alternatives. 
 
 As far as I know, you have one of 2 options. You either have a server (a pc set up to be a server and containing this database) or you could take the easier option and host your database on the cloud. Many websites offer a free service to host your database for a limited amount of time, or limited storage. If you have Azure subscription that would definitely be the way to go. 
 
 If your connection string is like below 
 
 then you should install   on your friend's PC.
And make sure the .mdf file is located the same as on your computer. 
 