*** how-do-i-rename-a-column-in-a-database-table-using-sql ***

 If I wish to simply rename a column (not change its type or constraints, just its name) in an SQL database using SQL, how do I do that?  Or is it not possible? 
 This is for any database claiming to support SQL, I'm simply looking for an SQL-specific query that will work regardless of actual database implementation. 
 
 On PostgreSQL (and many other RDBMS), you can do it with regular   statement: 
 
 
 Specifically for SQL Server, use  
 
 
 In MySQL, the syntax is  : 
 
 Note that you can't just rename and leave the type and constraints as is; you must retype the data type and constraints after the new name of the column. 
 
 Unfortunately, for a database independent solution, you will need to know everything about the column. If it is used in other tables as a foreign key, they will need to be modified as well. 
 
 For the very simplest of cases (no constraints, triggers, indexes or keys), it will take the above 3 lines. For anything more complicated it can get very messy as you fill in the missing parts. 
 However, as mentioned above, there are simpler database specific methods if you know which database you need to modify ahead of time. 
 
 I think this is the easiest way to change column name. 
 
 
 In Informix, you can use: 
 
 This was implemented before the SQL standard addressed the issue - if it is addressed in the SQL standard.  My copy of the SQL 9075:2003 standard does not show it as being standard (amongst other things, RENAME is not one of the keywords).  I don't know whether it is actually in SQL 9075:2008. 
 
 In sql server you can use  
 
 or 
 
 
 You can use the following command to rename the column of any table in SQL Server: 
 
 
 ALTER TABLE is standard SQL.  But it's not completely implemented in many database systems. 
 
 The standard would be  , but that's not necessarily supported by every DBMS you're likely to encounter, so if you're looking for an all-encompassing syntax, you may be out of luck. 
 
 Alternatively to  , you can do this in Microsoft SQL Server Management Studio, from the table Design Panel. 
 First Way 
 Slow double-click on the column. The column name will become an editable text box. 
 Second Way  
 
 SqlManagement Studio>>DataBases>>tables>>specificTable>>Column
  Folder>>Right Click on column>>Reman 
 
 Third Way 
 Table>>RightClick>>Design 
 