*** import-postgres-database-without-roles ***

 I have a database that was exported with pg_dump, but now when I'm trying to import it again with: 
 
 It fails trying to grant roles to people that don't exist. (error says 'Role "xxx" does not exist')  
 Is there a way to import and set all the roles automatically to my user? 
 
 The default behavior of the import is that it replaces all roles it does not know with the role you are doing the import with. So depending on what you need the database for, you might just be fine with importing it and with ignoring the error messages. 
 Quoting from  http://www.postgresql.org/docs/9.2/static/backup-dump.html#BACKUP-DUMP-RESTORE 
 
 Before restoring an SQL dump, all the users who own objects or were granted permissions on objects in the dumped database must already exist. If they do not, the restore will fail to recreate the objects with the original ownership and/or permissions. (Sometimes this is what you want, but usually it is not.) 
 
 
 The answer that you might be looking for is adding the   to the   command. Unlike the accepted answer at the moment, the command should create every object with the current user even if the role in the dump don't exist in the database. 
 So no element will get skipped by pg_restore but if some elements imported are owned by different users, all of the records will be now owned by only one user as far as I can tell. 
 
 With   you can use the   option to force a role name to be used to perform the restore. But the dump must be non plain text format. For example you can dump with: 
 
 and than you can restore it with: 
 
 for more info:
 http://www.postgresql.org/docs/9.2/static/app-pgrestore.html 
 
 Yes, you can dump all the "Global" objects from your source DB with pg_dumpall's -g option: 
 
 Then run globals.sql against your target DB before importing. 
 
 In newer versions of pg_restore it will complain about text file imports. 
 However, ou can just remove these lines with awk. You can pipe it to a new file to make sure it didn't break anything or just pipe it directly into psql like this: 
 
 
 replace   with your import file 
 replace   with your username 
 replace   with the name of the database to create 
 replace   with the role it is complaining about 
 
 If you have multiple roles: 
 
 This will remove all lines that mention that role. Everything will be created owned by the user logged in to psql. 
 
 Well You can just create new role with same name as that you are missing, and then import dump with no errors. 
 error says 'Role "xxx" does not exist' - so create it :) 
 