*** is-there-anything-as-good-as-toad-for-postgres-windows ***

 
 
 
 
 
 Closed.  This question is  off-topic . It is not currently accepting answers.
                            
                         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Want to improve this question?   Update the question  so it's  on-topic  for Stack Overflow.
                         
 Closed  last year . 
 
 
 
 I'm just looking for a management tool like TOAD for Postgres.  Anyone used a good one? 
 Edit - I work mostly within the data itself and the database already has a mature model/design.  I use the edit windows the most (well, in TOAD for Oracle anyway.) 
 As far as I know, Toad only exists naturally for: Oracle, MS SQL, DB2 and MySQL... 
 --JS 
 
 Not sure if TOAD for specific DB versions is any different than TOAD for Data Modeler, but   it appears that  TOAD Data Modeler  supports PostgreSQL, along with a few others. 
 If you're looking for something like SQL Server Management Studio, but for Postgres, how about  EMS SQL Manager  or  Lightning Admin ? 
 
 Doesn't TOAD exist for several plattforms? 
 I'm using pgAdmin III which fills my needs so far. 
 http://www.pgadmin.org/ 
 
 See the wiki:  http://wiki.postgresql.org/wiki/Community_Guide_to_PostgreSQL_GUI_Tools 
 
 TOra  has some nice features and is supposed to be a lot like TOAD.  Also, it is completely GPL so you can change the code yourself. 
 BTW:  Toad is not OpenSource and is now only trialware (must re-install every 120 days).  TOra is OpenSource so you don't have those issues. 
 
 I've used  Navicat  fairly extensively and successfully but only on a Mac. It has a Windows implementation that is, as far as I know, more feature rich than the Mac implementation.  
 I've had the odd data typing issue with it but, if you are not doing data modelling, that may not be an issue for you 
 
 Navicat for PostgreSQL is working really well for me natively.
I set up phppgAdmin for the teams general use and it has been quite valuea
ble 
 
 Because you do not need to edit the database design, I suggest  SQL Workbench/J . It is Java application. You can use GUI mode (which I prefer to) and console mode (if you like psql-like command console).
I use this app much more than pgAdmin III or pgAdmin 4 because it helps me to ease monitoring the database activity, deploying new version of DB app, etc. 
 