*** java-library-to-maintain-database-structure ***

 My application is always developing, so occasionally - when the version upgrades - some tables need to be created/altered/deleted, some data modified, etc. Generally some sql code needs to be executed.  
 **Is there a Java library that can be used to keep my database structure up to date**
 (by analyzing something like " " information and executing custom sql to code to update from one version to another)? 
 Also it would be great to have some basic actions (like add/remove column) ready to use with minimal configuration, ie name/type and no sql code. 
 
 Try  DBDeploy . Although I haven't used it in the past, it sounds like this project would help in your case. DBDeploy is a  database refactoring manager that : 
 
 "Automates the process of establishing
  which database refactorings need to be
  run against a specific database in
  order to migrate it to a particular
  build." 
 
 It is known to integrate with both Ant and Maven. 
 
 Try  Liquibase .  
 
 Liquibase is an open source (Apache
  2.0 Licensed), database-independent library for tracking, managing and
  applying database changes. It is built
  on a simple premise: All database
  changes are stored in a human readable
  yet trackable form and checked into
  source control. 
 Supported features: 
 
 Extensibility 
 Merging changes from multiple developers 
 Code branches 
 Multiple Databases 
 Managing production data as well as various test datasets 
 Cluster-safe database upgrades 
 Automated updates or generation of SQL scripts that can be approved and
  applied by a DBA 
 Update rollbacks 
 Database ”diff“s 
 Generating starting change logs from existing databases 
 Generating database change documentation 
 
 
 
 We use a piece of software called  Liquibase  for this. It's very flexible and you can set it up pretty much however you want it. We have it integrated with Maven so our database is always up to date. 
 
 You can also check  Flyway  (400 questions tagged on SOW) or  mybatis  (1049 questions tagged). To add to the comparison the other options mentioned:  Liquibase  (663 questions tagged) and  DBDeploy  (24 questions tagged). 
 Another resource that you can find useful is the  feature comparison  in the Flyway website (There are other related projects mentioned there). 
 
 You should take a look into OR Mapping libraries, e.g.  Hibernate 
 
 Most ORM mappers have logic to do schema upgrades for you, I have successfully used  Hibernate  which gets at least the basic stuff right automatically. 
 