*** know-relationships-between-all-the-tables-of-database-in-sql-server ***

 I wish to all know how the tables in my database are related to each other (i.e PK/FK/UK) and hence i created a database diagram of all my tables in SQL Server. The diagram that was created was not easily readable and had to scroll (horizontally and sometimes vertically) to see the table on the other end. 
 In short SQL's db diagram are not UI friendly when it comes to knowing relationships between many tables.  
 My (simple) Question: Is there something like database diagram which can do what db diagram did but in "good" way? 
 
 Sometimes, a textual representation might also help; with this query on the system catalog views, you can get a list of all FK relationships and how the link two tables (and what columns they operate on). 
 
 Dump this into Excel, and you can slice and dice - based on the parent table, the referenced table or anything else. 
 I find visual guides helpful - but sometimes, textual documentation is just as good (or even better) - just my 2 cents..... 
 
 Or you can look at  schemacrawler 
 
 Just another way to retrieve the same data using INFORMATION_SCHEMA  
 
 The information schema views included in SQL Server comply with the ISO standard definition for the INFORMATION_SCHEMA. 
 
 sqlauthority way 
 
 
 Microsoft Visio is probably the best I've came across, although as far as I know it won't automatically generate based on your relationships. 
 EDIT: try this in Visio, could give you what you need  http://office.microsoft.com/en-us/visio-help/reverse-engineering-an-existing-database-HA001182257.aspx 
 
 This stored procedure will provide you with a hierarchical tree of relationship. Based on this  article  from Technet. It will also optionally provide you a query for reading or deleting all the related data.  
 
 
 My solution is based on @marc_s solution, i just concatenated columns in cases that a constraint is based on more than one column: 
 
 
 
 This will list the column with   and  . 
 