*** lightweight-sql-database-which-doesnt-require-installation ***

 
 
 
 
 
 Closed.  This question is  off-topic . It is not currently accepting answers.
                            
                         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Want to improve this question?   Update the question  so it's  on-topic  for Stack Overflow.
                         
 Closed  3 years ago . 
 
 
 
 Could you recommend a lightweight SQL database which doesn't require installation on a client computer to work and could be accessed easily from .NET application? Only basic SQL capabilities are needed. 
 Now I am using Access database in simple projects and distribute .MDB and .EXE files together. Looking for any alternatives. 
 
 Depends on what you mean by lightweight. Easy on Ram? Or lighter db file? Or lighter connector to connect to db? Or fewer files over all? I'll give a comparison of what I know: 
 
 The dbs are of 1 table with 2 columns and 2 rows. Take the db size with a pinch of salt as dbs could grow differently with further use. For instance   though initially was at 64 KB, it didn't grow at all after adding a few hundred records, while   grew easily from 48 to 72 to 140 KB. SQLite was the best in that regard which started from the lowest and grew linearly. 
 Few anecdotes: I had better performance using SqlServerCe with the factory settings which means its the easiest to get kick started without any configuration, while I found Firebird little bit harder to get it started due to lack of online materials. Firebird as I could read had widest standard sql compliance. While VistaDb is written in fully managed C# which means it can be merged with your application's assembly to have one single file, it seemed slowest to me. Of all, considering performance, ease and size I chose SQLite. SqlServerCe would be my second choice. 
 In short each has its pluses and minuses. Again, take my rant with a pinch of salt, its just my personal experience. 
 
 Check  SQLite , it's a software library that implements a self-contained, serverless, zero-configuration, transactional SQL database engine. 
 It has many  wrappers  for .NET  
 
 Howabout SQL Server 3.5/2008 Compact Edition?  A neat embedded version of SQL Server. 
 http://www.microsoft.com/Sqlserver/2008/en/us/compact.aspx 
 Works pretty nice with .NET, and of course all your regular SQL Server tools and scripts work fine. 
 
 You could look at VistaDB if you are writing in .NET.  It is 100% managed code, contains true referential integrity, tsql stored procs, clr procs, and much more in a single assembly you can xcopy deploy.   
 VistaDB runs in shared hosting asp.net sites under medium trust, and in active directory domains as guest (no local permissions) as well. 
 There are no registry or other configuration settings required on the machine you deploy the engine on, and the runtime is royalty free. 
 32/64 bit support is included in the single assembly.  Mixed mode engines with unmanaged code generally require you to ship more than 1 version of the unmanaged code to support 32 and 64 bit, or to recompile for specific CPU targets. 
 See the  Advantages of VistaDB  SO thread for more information. 
 http://www.vistadb.net 
 
 SQLite  is great. 
 Also check out  Firebird  embedded. It might be a better option if multiple users need to access the database in the future. 
 
 You can store your data as JSON files.  If you need it to be stand-alone, there are dll solutions such as  IODB  and  LiteDB   
 
 SQLite  will be what you're after 
 