*** list-of-python-object-databases ***

 
 
 
 
 
 Closed.  This question is  off-topic . It is not currently accepting answers.
                            
                         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Want to improve this question?   Update the question  so it's  on-topic  for Stack Overflow.
                         
 Closed  last year . 
 
 
 
 I am looking for an object database for Python (no handmade pickles :D).  
 What are my options (besides the obvious  ZODB )? 
 
 MongoDB perhaps comes close - not object oriented but document-oriented and coming close to object databases. 
 
 Dobbin . Somewhat similar to ZODB, but much simpler. It looks nice but I haven't tried it myself. I haven't been able to find much information about it. It has been at version 0.2 for over a year. I don't know if it is still being actively maintained, if it is reliable enough for mission-critical applications. 
 From the description on the site, the main difference between Dobbin and other object databases is that persisted objects are read-only unless they are explicitly "checked out". This may make dealing with objects a little trickier, but it may make the database faster and more memory-efficient. 
 
 
 handmade  shelves ? ;-) 
 Durus ? 
 SqlAlchemy ? it's not an object database, but chances are that you could use it 
 
 Check  PersistenceTools  on the python.org wiki, which mentions a few that might count. (the  DatabaseProgramming  page also mentions  Matisse  under "Non-relational Databases", I don't know it, just mention it because for some reason, it's not included on that other page) 
 
 DyBASE  by  Konstantin Knizhnik  who developed a lot of embedded databases for multiple programming languages. It has transactions and indices. There are tests in the distribution and I use it myself for persisting elements in a Python Queue. My example is also available at github as  python-persistence-queue 
 
 Cog: 
 Seems not updating for a long time. 
 itamarst.org/software/cog 
 And this is a paper on 6th International Python conf. about object database.
 https://legacy.python.org/workshops/1997-10/proceedings/shprentz.html 
 