*** manipulating-lines-of-data ***

 I have millions of lines generated from data updated every second which look like this:  
 
 The column on the left represents time (hhmmss format), and the column on the right is data which is updated second-by-second.  As you can see however, it isn't actually second-by-second, and there are some missing times (10:45:04, 10:45:07, 10:45:08 are missing in this example).  My goal is to add in the missing seconds, and to use the data from the previous second for that missing second, like this: 
 
 I don't want the "--" in the result, I just put those there to mark the added lines.  So far I've tried to accomplish this using StreamReader and StreamWriter, but it doesn't seem like they're going to get me what I want.  I'm a newbie programmer and a newbie to C#, so if you could just point me in the right direction, that would be great.  I'm really just wondering if this is even possible to do in C#...I've spent a lot of time on MSDN and here on SO looking for a solution to this, but so far haven't found any.  
 Edit: The lines are in a text file, and I want to store the newly created data in a new text file. 
 
 ok, here is the whole shooting match, tested and working against your test data: 
 
 
 There are a few things you need to put together. 
 
 Read a file line-by-line: See here:  Reading a Text File One Line at a Time 
 Writing a file line-by-line :  
 Keep track of the last read line. (Just use a variable in your while loop where you read the lines) 
 Check whether there is a gap. Maybe by parsing the first column ( ) using  . If there is a gap then write the last read line, incrementing the timespan. 
 
 
 In adition to all answers, considering that you are talking about a huge files, consider use of   MemoryMappedFiles , can read  here  to see how to use them from C#.  
 This is  not performance  improvement, but  memory improvement  definetely is. 
 
 So far as inserting new entries between certain ones goes, I would advise reading in the text file into separated lines, and then storing them in a  . That way, you can use the   method to insert your new lines. From there, you can write the lines back into the file. 
 When reading the lines, you can use either of the static helper methods in the   class:   and  . 
 Note: I've added links to the MSDN Documentation for each of the methods and classes I've mentioned, since you said you are new to C# and programming in general. 
 
 
 Here is some pseudo-code to get you started.  I think you will want this type of algorithm. 
 
 Here's some rough code for you. I'm not properly disposing everything, it's just to get you started. 
 
 
 This assumes the times are never more than a second apart. If that assumption is wrong, it's easy enough to modify the below so it writes the lastValue in a loop for each second missing.
 Update  I missed in your example that it can in fact miss multiple seconds. I changed the example below to address that. 
 
 
 
 