*** mock-entity-framework-database ***

 I am using Entity Framework 4+. 
 Is it possible to automatically create some MOCK database from the schema with some random data? Where ints, put ints, where strings, put some GUIDs or whatever... 
 It would help me to debug my application a lot. 
 Thank you, James 
 
 I discovered  this great tool  for use with EF 4 for mocking the database. Basically it is just a T4 template that creates both the "normal" EF layer and also creates a mock object and interface that can be used to test. More documentation  here . 
 One caveat, though. Out of the box it didn't work for me because my repository code calls SaveChanges() and other methods which are not implemented in the generated interface. I was able to get around this by extracting the interface from Microsoft's ObjectContext implementation and creating my own IObjectContext interface. I then created a base class (for the mock) that implements this interface by simply delegating each of the calls to an injected mock. This way I can use Moq to create that piece in my test class, while still retaining the ability to track inserts, updates, and deletes in the generated mock. 
 Here are my changes to the "Context" T4 template to fix this issue. Sorry for doing this in little bits and pieces - SO didn't let me post the entire code listing because it was too long. 
 Add this code before  
 
 Add this code after the   block. 
 
 Change the first 2 lines (the 2nd one being the curly bracket) of   (after the comment) to 
 
 Change the first line of   (after the comment) to 
 
 I should also note that I haven't done much testing with this yet, but I did do some basic verifications to ensure it functions. 
 
 Here is library that helps in generating test data -  http://autopoco.codeplex.com/ 
 
 See Rab Hallett's blog titled  ADO.NET Mocking Context Generator: Visual Studio 2010 Template 
 Here Rab uses a T4 template to create the interface for EF. 
 
 You can check out  this thread  about Visual Studio for Database Professionals. Or RedGate has a  similar tool . I don't know of any free tools that would do this. 
 