*** mysql-vs-firebird-vs-sqlite ***

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                            It's difficult to tell what is being asked here. This question is ambiguous, vague, incomplete, overly broad, or rhetorical and   cannot be reasonably answered in its current form. For help clarifying this question so that it can be reopened,    visit the help center .
                            
                         
 
 
 Closed  7 years ago . 
 
 
 We will implement a company based ( not open source ) software and I really cannot choose which one I am going to work with. I can see the differences between all of them 
 here 
but I need more specific information, like is really MySql not free for not open source projects ( based on this blog ) or how about their comparison in deployment? 
 EDIT :  I need to expand my question. We are just implementing an API to our existing project. This will be used as a standalone program but it is an embedded system project so the deployement is really really important. I know that SQLite is really easy to deploy but I can see there are a few disadvantages. Can you please tell me which one can be better used according to this situation ?  
 Thank you all  
 
 I can't answer for all of them, but SQLite is entirely free to use in any application at all. It's explicitly been put in the  Public Domain ; you can get a license if you insist, but you're just getting what you have total right to anyway. For deployment, SQLite is certainly deployed in many places (inside many browsers, many smartphones, etc.) so it's definitely production-quality, but you do need to be in a position  to be able to work with a native code library (SQLite's written in C, and compiles to a library); as it happens, that rules it out of my current projects… 
 
 For firebird this is here  http://www.firebirdsql.org/en/about-firebird/ 
 
 Firebird is a relational database offering many ANSI SQL standard
  features that runs on Linux, Windows, and a variety of Unix platforms.
  Firebird offers excellent concurrency, high performance, and powerful
  language support for stored procedures and triggers. It has been used
  in production systems, under a variety of names, since 1981. 
 The Firebird Project is a commercially independent project of C and
  C++ programmers, technical advisors and supporters developing and
  enhancing a multi-platform relational database management system based
  on the source code released by Inprise Corp (now known as Borland
  Software Corp) on 25 July, 2000. 
 FREE LIKE A BIRD. Anyone can build a custom version of Firebird, as
  long as the modifications are made available, under the same IDPL
  licensing, for others to use and build on. 
 FREE LIKE FREE BEER. No fees for download, registration, licensing or
  deployment, even you distribute Firebird as part of your commercial
  software package. 
 Firebird's development depends on voluntary funding by people who
  benefit from using it. Funding options range from donations, through
  Firebird Foundation memberships to sponsorship commitments. 
 Choosing Firebird and saving or making money by your choice? Show your
  appreciation and encouragement by contributing money in proportion to
  these benefits. 
 
 