*** mysql-workbench-vs-phpmyadmin ***

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                            As it currently stands, this question is not a good fit for our Q&A format. We expect answers to be supported by facts, references,   or expertise, but this question will likely solicit debate, arguments, polling, or extended discussion. If you feel that this question   can be improved and possibly reopened,  visit the help center  for guidance.
                            
                         
 
 
 Closed  6 years ago . 
 
 
 I've only used phpMyAdmin but then I stumbled upon MySQL Workbench that looks promising. 
 I wonder if someone has tried it out and could give your thoughts about it compared to phpMyAdmin. 
 Could it replace phpMyAdmin completely? 
 
 Workbench is very nice if you need to visualize your table relationships, basically that's the only thing I've used it for, but I believe phpmyadmin also supports that now,  through a java applet? , it's called Designer view. 
 You can access it by clicking on your database in the left-hand frame, and then clicking on the Designer tab. 
 Also, keep in mind that there are limitations on the free versions, like it cannot reverse engineer existing databases. 
 
 
 Could it replace phpmyadmin
  completely? 
 
 Yes it can. Actually you get much more control in  Workbench , especially on the administration side. Probably the main advantage of  phpMyAdmin  is in its web user interface, which in some cases can be more convenient than the Workbench client.  
 
 I do use MySQL Workbench.  I think it has come a long way since its early versions and it's an effective substitute for phpMyAdmin. 
 I'd use phpMyAdmin mainly for a webhosting environment, if your client PC is not allowed to connect directly to the MySQL server, but a web app in that server environment is allowed to. 
 
 http://www.sqlbuddy.com/  is pretty awesome too. Lighter-weight for just looking at your tables. Great UI too. 
 
 DB Visualizer  is my cross-platform, cross-DB tool of choice - it also has good reverse engineering and visualisation (duh!) support.  
 
 I'm beginning to get my hands dirty with MySQL Workbench 5. So far, it's rather comprehensive for a non-web interface client. I'm augmenting our MySQL environment with phpMyAdmin because we do web hosting. I find phpMyAdmin to be intuitive for our customers. 
 