*** mysql-error-1062-duplicate-entry-for-key-2 ***

 I'm trying to insert a huge list of users to a MySQL database but everytime I try I get the error:  
 
 It gives me this because the 2nd column is blank on quite a lot of the entries, so after it's inserted one blank entry in column 2, it won't let me add another. However, when I added most of the list yesterday I didn't get this error once even though a lot of the entries I added yesterday have a blank cell in column 2 as well. Whats going on?  
 This is the sql code to insert 1 entry. The rest follow the same format: 
 
 
 In addition to Sabeen's answer: 
 The first column id is your primary key. 
Don't insert   into the primary key, but insert null instead. 
 
 If it's an autoincrement key this will fix your problem. 
If not make   an autoincrement key, and always insert   into it to trigger an autoincrement. 
 MySQL has a setting to autoincrement keys only on   insert or on both inserts of   and  . Don't count on this setting, because your code may break if you change server. 
If you insert   your code will always work. 
 See:  http://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.0/en/example-auto-increment.html 
 
 Seems like the second column is set as a unique index. If you dont need that remove it and your errors will go away. Possibly you added the index by mistake and thats why you are seeing the errors today and werent seeing them yesterday 
 
 I got this error when I tried to set a column as unique when there was already duplicate data in the column OR if you try to add a column and set it as unique when there is already data in the table. 
 I had a table with 5 rows and I tried to add a unique column and it failed because all 5 of those rows would be empty and thus not unique. 
 I created the column without the unique index set, then populated the data then set it as unique and everything worked. 
 
 As it was said you have a unique index.  
 
 However, when I added most of the list yesterday I didn't get this error once even though a lot of the entries I added yesterday have a blank cell in column 2 as well. Whats going on? 
 
 That means that all these entries contain value  , not empty string  . Mysql lets you have multiple   values in unique fields. 
 
 Check out your table index.
If that field got index (e.g. B+ tree index.) At that time update or insert query throws these kinds of error. 
 Remove indexing and then try to fire same query. 
 
 Error 'Duplicate entry '338620-7' for key 2' on query. Default database  
 For this error : 
 
 This worked for me  
 
 you can try adding  
 
 in "your database file".php after that you can modify your database as you like. 
 
 
 Drop the primary key first: (The primary key is your responsibility) 
 
 Then make all insertions:  
 Add new primary key just like before dropping: 
 
 
 