*** online-databases-for-trying-out-oracle-sql-queries ***

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                            As it currently stands, this question is not a good fit for our Q&A format. We expect answers to be supported by facts, references,   or expertise, but this question will likely solicit debate, arguments, polling, or extended discussion. If you feel that this question   can be improved and possibly reopened,  visit the help center  for guidance.
                            
                         
 
 
 Closed  6 years ago . 
 
 
 I am studying for an undergraduate databases course. 
 I'd like to know if there are any online sites that allow me to do queries against an already built and populated database (with a known schema), so I didn't have to install SQL and populate it with data myself. 
 I am currently doing some exercises by hand on a workbook I have here, but I'm a bit afraid that I might be doing them wrong and it's hard to check their correctness without testing them against the "real thing". 
 Thanks 
 (In our course we are using Oracle) 
 
 Have you tried  SQLZoo  ? 
 You can (for free) install  SQL Server 2008 R2 Express Edition , and download and install already populated databases (such as AdventureWorks2008) from  here . Both installs are straight forward. 
 
 If you don't want to go far, do try the  StackExchange Data Explorer : 
 
 About 
 Stack Exchange Data Explorer allows you to run arbitrary queries on the Stack Exchange public data dumps. 
 
 It's fast and supports a SQLServer-like T-SQL syntax. 
 
 Give Stack Exchange's  Data Explorer  a spin. 
 
 For Oracle specific queries, you can signup for  Oracle's Apex  which gives you a pre-populated schema based on the Employees/Departments table 
 
 You can easily install MySQL/PostgreSQL/SQL Server Express and get up and running, also whatever test data might be installed on a publicly available server won't  necessarily stay the same between queries, since anyone can access it. 
 So just go ahead and install one of the above, you'll thank yourself in the near future. 
 
 Maybe not exactly what you are looking for, by SQLZoo Tutorials allow you to practice some basic interactions, and also allow you to interact with a number of different SQL Engines. 
 http://sqlzoo.net/ 
 
 Try out  this Interactive SQL  site. It looks what are you looking for 
 
 You could try installing  WAMP Server .  This comes with MySQL and a UI of phpMyAdmin that you can use to install and test databases.  Then you can install the MySQL  test employees database .  
 
 For very simple queries, you can try SQL queries online in the W3Schools SQL Try It page -  http://www.w3schools.com/sql/sql_tryit.asp 
 Or you can use the online demo of phpMyAdmin at  http://demo.phpmyadmin.net/STABLE/?pma_username=root  for deeper use. 
 
 Oracle Apex provides online space for you to create and execute your sql queries. Please create an account with Oracle Apex and then enjoy with your personalised tablespace and schema. This is freeware and Oracle doesn't charge anything for this. It is the best way if you don't want to install Oracle on your system and don't want to slow down your system. Another advantage of Oracle Apex is that you have all your tables and data online and you don't have to maintain it, Oracle will do that for you. You can access your database from anywhere you want. 
 