*** oracle-dbunit-gets-ambiguoustablenameexception ***

 I am using dbunit to create database backups, which can be imported and exported. My application can use several database engines: MySQL, PostgreSQL, SQLServer, H2 and Oracle. 
 All of the above work fine with the following code: 
 
 But on Oracle I get this exception: 
 
 
 From the  docs : 
 
 
 This exception is thrown by   when multiple tables having the
  same name are accessible. This usually occurs when the database
  connection have access to multiple schemas containing identical table
  names.  
 Possible solutions: 
 1) Use a database connection credential that has
  access to only one database schema. 
 2) Specify a schema name to the
    or   constructor. 
 3) Enable the qualified table name support (see How-to documentation). 
 
 
 For whom uses SpringDBUnit. I had struggled with this very annoying issue. I had ended up solving the issue by adding the configuration for   and  . 
 This is my full spring context for SpringDBUnit 
 
 
 Setting the database schema fixed it for me: 
 
 
 I had the same AmbiguousTableNameException while executing Dbunits aginst Oracle DB. It was working fine and started throwing error one day. 
 Rootcause: while calling a stored procedure, it got modified by mistake to lower case. When changed to upper case it stared working. 
 I could solve this also by setting the shema name to IDatabaseTester like iDatabaseTester.setSchema("SCHEMANAMEINCAPS") 
 Also please make sure your connection doesn't access only to  many schemas having same table name. 
 
 You might encounter issues when importing data from Hibernate before DBUnit runs. According to the database you are using, the casing of table and column names could be important. 
 For example, in HSQL, database names must be declared in uppercase.
In case you import data via Hibernate's import.sql, make sure the table names are also in uppercase there, otherwise you'll end up with the following problem: 
 
 Hibernate creates the tables in lower case 
 DBUnit reads the table names from the DB in lower case 
 DBUnit tries to import its datasets using upper case table names 
 You end up in a mess, with the ambiguous name exception. 
 
 Remember to also check whether multiple tables were created during a previous run (both upper and lower case), in which case you need to clean it up too. 
 