*** pgerror-error-permission-denied-for-relation-when-using-heroku ***

 I've recently gone through the database migration process as outlined here: 
 https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/migrating-from-shared-database-to-heroku-postgres 
 Now I'm seeing a number of errors in the logs like this: 
 PGError: ERROR: permission denied for relation  
 Any ideas on what I should do to fix it? 
 
 I had a similar problem but the root cause was that my app was pointing to the old dev database which had exceeded it's limit of 10,000 rows. 
 Although I created a new Basic db and backed everything up, the app was still pointing the old dev DB. 
 
 Check to see the rows: 10300/10000 (then you have a problem) 
 You will need to  
1) Create new DB with more rows (Basic or the "Production" ones -> Heroku seems to be forcing an upgrade to make more money errrrrr) 
2) backup the old DB using pgbackups:  
3) restore the backup to the new DB:   (see links below for more details) 
4) PROMOTE the new DB to the primary for the app:  
 can always utilize: 
 
 
   (to disable the app while updating) 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
  (to check the status) 
 
 
 If this is the problem you may want to check out:
 https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/heroku-postgres-starter-tier 
 https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/migrating-from-shared-database-to-heroku-postgres 
 
 UPDATE: Ashton's answer nails it in this situation, which is very Heroku specific. If you found this from a search for PostgreSQL error messages or problems but are  not  using Heroku, please look for other questions more likely to apply to your situation. 
 
 At a guess, the PostgreSQL user ID you're connecting with is not the owner of your tables, and you haven't issued any explicit   statements to give it access to them. Without seeing  exactly  what you ran when you migrated it's hard to say more - and Heroku hides many of the internals anyway. 
 Let's work out what the current situation is. Try connecting with   and running: 
 
 and show the permisions reported. Also show the result of: 
 
 run from   and when run as an SQL query from inside your application. 
 Edit your question to add that information and  the full, exact text of the error message you get . 
 
 Steps based on Ashton's answer to upgrade from Dev (10k rows limit) to Basic (10M rows limit) 
 check db rows exceded limit  
 
 disable the app and workers to ensure no db changes during db upgrade 
 
 if you don't have pgbackups 
 
 backup database and get backup id 
 
 add db with web interface 
 
 login to  https://addons.heroku.com 
 search "Heroku Postgres" 
 select plan and application 
 add it 
 
 view heroku config, you should see new db URL 
 
 restore backup to new db 
 
 change DATABASE_URL 
 
 enable the app and workers 
 
 
 After deleting the extra rows, you won't get the insert privileges back immediately. In that case, delete the extra rows and just run   after that. This will refresh the privileges of your DB and you will get the access back in few minutes. Its not required to clone the existing DB into a new one and setting the new one as the DB of your app. 
 
 
 I was in a situation where I exceeded row count limit. 
 This answer explained how to list number of rows in each table:
 http://stackoverflow.com/questions/12701711/heroku-row-count-incorrect 
 Very valuable to know.  
 You can get into the psql console through terminal, the connection settings are listed on heroku dashboard for your app! 
 
 I had the similar problem on my Redmine application: 
 
 My steps were: 
 
 I made a backup of old Redmine application and database.  
 I deployed a new version of Redmine - it worked perfectly 
 I restored old Redmine as a development server and I got an error
when I tried to access the main webpage. 
 
 The cause of my problem was just in wrong username in old Redmine's config/database.yml 
 