*** phpmyadmin-error-incorrect-format-parameter ***

 I have a WordPress production website. 
 I've exported the database by the following commands:  
 I've downloaded the file which is example.sql.zip but when I upload to my localhost I get this error:  
 I've tried to export with other formats and I get the same error. 
 I've tried with other SQL Databases and it exports/ imports just fine. 
 What could it be? A corrupt database or other? 
 Thanks 
 
 This issue is not because of corrupt database. 
I found the solution from this video -  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MqOsp54EA3I 
 It is suggested to increase the values of two variables in php.ini file.
Change following in php.ini 
 
 This solved my issue. Hope solves yours too.  
 
 Compress your   file, and make sure to name it  , i.e. 
 .  
 As noted above, PhpMyAdmin throws this error if your   file is larger than the Maximum allowed upload size -- but, in my case the maximum was 50MiB despite that I had set all options noted in previous answers (look for the "Max: 50MiB" next to the upload button in PhpMyAdmin).  
 
 For me, adjusting the 2 values was not enough. If the file is too big, you also need to adjust the execution time variables. 
 First, ../php/php.ini 
 
 Then, ../phpMyAdmin\libraries\config.default.php 
 
 This did the trick for me. The variables can be choosen differently of course. Maybe the execution time has to be even higher. And the size depends on your filesize. 
 
 None of these answers worked for me. I had to use the command line: 
 
 Done! 
 
 I was able to resolve this by following the steps posted here:  xampp phpmyadmin, Incorrect format parameter 
 Because I'm not using XAMPP, I also needed to update my   to   which finally did the trick. 
 
 Just gone through the same problem when trying to import a CSV (400 MBs) and was also getting an error in red saying 
 
 Error - incorrect format parameter 
 
 Initially thought it could have been the parameters and tested again. Faster, from my previous experince with it, I realized that it was due to other reasons (size of the file, execution of script has a maximum time defined, etc). 
 So, I've gone to php.ini 
 
 and changed the values from the following settings 
 
 After this modification, stoped MySQL and Apache and started them again, went to phpmyadmin trying to import. Then I reached another  error 
 
 Fatal error: Maximum execution time of 300 seconds exceeded 
 
 which was fixed by simply setting in xampp/phpmyadmin/libraries/config.default.php 
 
 
 Setting it to 0 disables execution time limits. 
 Then, after a while, the import happened without problems. 
 
 I had this error and as I'm on shared hosting I don't have access to the php.ini so wasn't sure how I could fix it, the host didn't seem to have a clue either.  In the end I emptied my browser cache and reloaded phpmyadmin and it came back! 
 
 This error is caused by the fact that the maximum upload size is (Max: 2,048KiB). If your file is bigger than this, you will get an error. Zip the file and upload it again, you will not get the error.  
 
 None of the above answers solved it for me. 
 I cant even find the 'libraries' folder in my xampp - ubuntu also. 
 So, I simply restarted using the following commands: 
 
 and 
 
 Thanks me..!! 
 