*** postgresql-replication-strategies ***

 Right now we are using PostgreSQL 8.3 (on Linux) as a database backend to our Ruby on Rails web application. 
 Considering that on PostgreSQL database we actively use row level blocking and PL/PGSQL, what can we employ to secure our data -- I mean tools, packages, scripts, strategies -- to successfully replicate the database and build multi-master combination? 
 I will appreciate master-slave suggestions as well. 
 For example, if I put several application servers running Apache/Ruby to achieve higher performance and at the end deploy several database servers, is there any way to build multi-master replication in PostgreSQL? 
 Right now we use PostgreSQL WAL mechanism to backup data to file system. 
 Thanks a lot. 
 
 There are a few tools for master-slave (and master-multislave) scenarios, usually trigger-based.  Slony-I  has already been mentioned (is stable and solid, but a bit difficult to operate). People having problems with Slony-I wrote
 Londiste  (by Skype team) and  PyReplica . Bah, and I just spotted 
 Mammoth  has been open-sourced 
 For multimaster there is  Bucardo  (note: it is not that polished)
or commercial offerings - for example by  Continuent  or  CyberTec . 
 
 If you haven't already, I'd suggest a look at the  High Availability, Load Balancing, and Replication  chapter of the PostgreSQL manual. It gives a clear overview of the available techiques and their features. 
 
 Hm,  Bucardo  is really good and stable, in comparison to the others here. It is as polished as can be a Perl-based replication system, and supports master-slave as well as multi-master replication, with interesting conflict resolution concepts. 
 If you need simple master-slave rep I'd recommend Londiste, but for the multi-master needs, Bucardo is the only acceptable solution IMHO. 
 
 I though  Postgres-R  looked promising, however, its still  in development.  
 It was supposedly stabilised and purported to be a potential for integration with the standard issue, but its yet to come to fruition. 
 
 Late answer but there is a new open source software for asynchronous master-master replication of PostgreSQL (also works for MySQL):
 rubyrep 
 Focus is on easy setup.
Disclosure: I wrote it. 
 
 You can have a look at  slony . 
 
 PGCluster looks promising - we use it in limited situations without much problems.   
 http://pgfoundry.org/projects/pgcluster/ 
 