*** r-painfully-slow-read-performance-using-rodbc-sql-server ***

 I am new to R but am interested in using Shiny to create dynamic charts using data stored in a SQL Server database.  To enable interactivity, I want to bring in the raw data from the database and perform calculations within   rather than have the database summarize the data. 
 I am able to connect to the database using  , execute a query, and receive results in a  .  However, the read time in   is about 12x longer than than the same query executed in SQL Server Management Studio (SSMS).  SSMS takes ~600 ms, whereas   takes about 7.6 seconds.  My question is whether I am doing something wrong, or is   just really slow with database access?  And if so, are there faster alternatives (e.g. writing the database output to  a file and reading the file)? 
 Some information about the query that may help:  The query retrieves about 250K rows with 4 columns.  The first column is a date and the other three are numeric values.  The machine running   and SSMS is a high-end Win 7 workstation with 32GB of memory.  The   command that I am running is: 
 
 which returns: 
 
 Interestingly, it appears that the data transfer from SQL to my machine is fast, but that   is busy doing things internally for several seconds before returning  the  .  I see this because network utilization spikes in the first second and almost immediately returns to near 0.  Then several seconds later, the     returns. 
 
 I would try RJDBC
 http://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/RJDBC/RJDBC.pdf 
 with these drivers  https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/sqlserver/aa937724.aspx 
 
 
 I would make sure that your R timezone - sys.setenv(TZ='GMT') set to GMT for example - is same as the time zone of the SQL server from where you are pulling data. It could be that the date column is taking a long time to be interpreted especially if it has a timestamp. 
 RJDBC will run quicker because it converts date to character and everything else to numeric. RODBC will try to preserve the data type of the SQL table. 
 