*** rake-just-one-migration ***

 I'm trying to run just one migration out of a whole bunch in my rails app.  How can I do this? I don't want to run any of the migrations before or after it. Thanks. 
 
 , but that will run the   and then the   step. You could do this in conjunction with commenting out the down step temporarily. 
 
 
 similarly   to take a specific migration down. You can get a list of available rake tasks with  . 
 
 I've had to run a single migration that changed and needed to be re-run independently of all other migrations. Fire up the console and do this: 
 
 More usefully this could be put into a rake task etc. 
 
 
 Will migrate( add) specific migration script 
 
 Will delete specific migration script 
 
 
 give that a try. 
 
 Expanding on the answer by korch above,   did not work for me, but   did.  To be concrete, for the migration file: 
 
 in the console typing 
 
 worked for me.   
 
 This was for ruby 1.9.3p484 (2013-11-22 revision 43786) [x86_64-linux] and Rails 3.2.13. 
 
 
 Remember to put the quotation mark around xxxx, xxxx is the timestamp (or Migration ID) for your migration.  
 You may check the timestamps (Migration ID) for the previous migrations you've done by using 
 
 
 Adding my 2¢ to this because I ran into this same issue: 
 If you absolutely want to run a migration over again without creating a new one, you can do the following: 
 
 And rails will "forget" that it ran the migration for 20150105181157.  Now when you run db:migrate it will run it again. 
 This is almost always a bad idea though.  The one instance where it could make sense is if you have a development branch and you haven't fleshed out your migration yet and want to add some things to it in development.  But even then it's better to make your migration 2-way so you can properly rollback and retry repeatedly. 
 
 There's got to be a way to run the migration class via the console.  I can't seem to get the migrations code to be recognizable. 
 However, as the comments indicate, it's preferred to run the migrations in order.  Use: 
 
 Copy and paste your code in the migration to script/console? 
 
 I have a utility method that makes this very easy in development. I find that it helps me avoid creating too many migrations--normally I modify migrations until they have been deployed. 
 http://fullware.net/index.php/2011/05/26/easily-load-rails-migrations-for-console-execution/ 
 
 I use this technique in development when I change a migration a significant amount, and I don't want to migrate down a ton and lose any data in those along the way (especially when I'm importing legacy data that takes a long time that I don't want to have to re-import again).  
 This is 100% hackish and I would definitely not recommend doing this in production, but it will do the trick: 
 
 Move migration that you want to re-run out of its directory to a temporary place 
 Generate another migration with the same name 
 Copy/paste the original migration code into the newly generated migration file 
 Run the new migration 
 Delete the newly generated migration file 
 Edit your schema migrations to remove the most recent value 
 Restore the old migration file 
 
 