*** recommendations-for-column-oriented-database ***

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                            As it currently stands, this question is not a good fit for our Q&A format. We expect answers to be supported by facts, references,   or expertise, but this question will likely solicit debate, arguments, polling, or extended discussion. If you feel that this question   can be improved and possibly reopened,  visit the help center  for guidance.
                            
                         
 
 
 Closed  8 years ago . 
 
 
 I've found databases typically come in two flavors, your traditional row-oriented RDBMS or an object oriented database (OODBMS).  However, in the mid 90s I remember, a new breed of databases showing up that were column oriented.  Some of these were given the term 4GL, but I don't think it was a term that stuck. 
 What I'd like to know is the following: 
 
 What column oriented databases still exist? 
 What are the performance characteristics of these databases? 
 Are there any open source column oriented databases? 
 What platforms do they interoperate with (.NET, Java, etc) 
 What's been your general experience with them? 
 
 The two column oriented databases that I remember working with are FAME and KDB. 
 
 HBase  is an open-source column-oriented database system modelled on  Google's BigTable . 
 
 Infobright 
It's a column oriented MySQL engine 
You can use (almost) all MySQL api's/interfaces/tools but it's column oriented. 
 It's open-source and has a free version. 
It's very good for warehousing. I had a 10Gig fact table in SQL server. 
Infobright compressed it to 15MB. 
 
 Also check out Michael Stonebraker's C-store:
 C-store (includes links to source code and research paper) 
 The paper contains an excellent viewpoint on column oriented databases, that should answer most of your questions. 
 To quote the paper, 
 
 
 Sybase IQ  is one I have heard of. 
 
 InfiniDB  was recently released open source (GPLv2) by Calpont. It supports most of the MySQL API and stores data in a column-oriented fashion, and is optimized for large-scale analytic processing. 
 
 Here's the different column oriented DBMS wiki has
 Column-Oriented DBMS Implementations 
 
 Sybase IQ is column oriented .  All columns are automatically indexed when you create a table and data is nicely compressed in the columns. 
 It's a nice OLAP database (...data warehouse) but I would not recommend it for any kind of transaction processing as it is designed for data warehouse operations. 
 As for performance characteristics, SELECTS are very fast for large volumes of data but INSERT / UPDATE / DELETEs are very slow compared to a standard OLTP DB such as Sybase ASE for example.  Table locking is also very different to a OLTP database so expect exclusive table locks for write operations (INSERTS etc) when working in the MAIN data store. 
 Otherwise it supports T-SQL (Sybase version) and Watcom SQL. 
 Cheers, 
 Kevin 
 