*** spring-h2-embedded-database-file ***

 I currently run my petproject on maven using an embedded jetty and H2 database: 
 
 This setup resets my DB every time I run the server. I want to save the DB as a file in disk so that I do not lose my data upon every server start. How do I accomplish this? 
 
 You can controll this by the connection string. 
 
 More info  here . 
 EDIT: 
 Seems like the connection string is  hard-coded  in the spring H2 Configuration, so I assume that means you have to write you own implementation by extending the  EmbeddedDatabaseConfigurer , assuming there is no other way of changing the connection string after it's set in the  . 
 
 Old question but i spent a lot of time figuring out how to save an embedded H2 database to a file and i want to share what i learned.  
 As @ebaxt said you can configure the location of the embedded database within the connection string. 
If you want to save it in the file system use   syntax:    
 
 If you want to save it inside your project folder you have to use   syntax 
 
 This will create   file in   folder inside your home folder, or inside your project root folder.
But this will erase the database every time the application starts. To avoid this i used the   property to tell H2 to create the schema (Queue in my case) only if it not exists: 
 
 Then in your DDL script you have to use create table if not exists statement, to create all your tables: 
 
 and tell H2 to run the script every time it gets the connection: 
 
 Summarizing this is what you have to do to create the database (EmbeddedDb) in java annotation way: 
 
 or using XML: 
 
 With this method the database will be created only if it's the first time the application runs or if the database file doesn't exist. Otherwise only the connection will be loaded. 
 You can also monitor the database status with a nice interface using the  hsqldb  library, adding the following bean: 
 
 References: 
 http://www.mkyong.com/spring/spring-embedded-database-examples/   
 http://www.h2database.com/html/features.html#embedded_databases  (Execute SQL on Connect section) 
 