*** sqlite3-operationalerror-unable-to-open-database-file ***

 I get this error when setting up a server in Django. It is sqlite3 which means it should create the .db file but it doesn't seem to be doing so. I've stipulated SQLite as the backend and an absolute file path for where to put it, but no luck. 
 Is this a bug or am I doing something incorrect? (Was just thinking, is the absolute file path specified differently in Ubuntu?) 
 Here is the beginning of my settings.py file: 
 
 
 Django NewbieMistakes 
 
 PROBLEM  You're using SQLite3, your DATABASE_NAME is set to the
  database file's full path, the database file is writeable by Apache,
  but you still get the above error. 
 SOLUTION Make sure Apache can also write to the parent directory of
  the database. SQLite needs to be able to write to this directory. 
 Make sure each folder of your database file's full path does not start
  with number, eg. /www/4myweb/db (observed on Windows 2000). 
 If DATABASE_NAME is set to something like
  '/Users/yourname/Sites/mydjangoproject/db/db', make sure you've
  created the 'db' directory first. 
 Make sure your /tmp directory is world-writable (an unlikely cause as
  other thing on your system will also not work). ls /tmp -ald should
  produce drwxrwxrwt .... 
 Make sure the path to the database specified in settings.py is a full
  path. 
 Also make sure the file is present where you expect it to be. 
 
 
 I faced exactly same issue. Here is my setting which worked. 
 
 Other setting in case of sqlite3 will be same/default. 
And you need to create data.sqlite3.  
 
 You haven't specified the absolute path - you've used a shortcut ,  , which might not work in this context. Use   instead. 
 
 You need to use full path instead of  . 
 In your case, something like  . 
 
 In my case the sqlite db file   was stored in the   of apache. So, even after setting the following permissions it didn't work: 
 
 Finally when i moved   to a newly created folder   under   and gave the above permissions, and it worked. 
 
 use this type it works for me .
 windows 7 with python 2.7 and django 1.5 
 
 hope its works... 
 