*** sqlite-throwing-a-string-not-recognized-as-a-valid-datetime ***

 I am playing around with Sqlite and keep getting an error when trying to read back some test data. For example, I created a simple db with a single table and some columns and populated it with some test data as shown below. 
 
 I am using the System.Data.Sqlite library available  here  , but it keeps giving me an error while trying to read the date column. I tried putting the dates in the dd-MM-yyyy format, but still get an error saying "String Not Recognized as a valid datetime." I have tried using DateTime.Parse or casting it to datetime or just ToString()'ing it to see what happens, but I keep getting the same error. I can read the text fields fine, but can't read the date fields.  
 My C# code snipped is given below 
 
 Any help would be greatly appreciated. 
 Regards, 
 
 Based on the discussion in  this thread , I decided to construct my connection string with the "datetimeformat" parameter and the "String Not Recognized as a valid datetime" issue was resolved. 
 My example connection string:  
 
 This feature was released in version 1.0.87.0 on July 8, 2013 (see  release notes ) 
 
 This thread might be a bit old but I came across the same problem and found a "solution". 
 It seems that System.Data.SQLite does not handle  s correctly. I tried   and gave the format in my database (mm/dd/yyyy) but I noticed that it threw an error when just calling   on the   column for the date. This seemed strange since I was not attempting to fit it into a   but have it read out as a  .  
 Because of this, I went back to the view I was calling from the database and wrapped all of my dates in a  . This way, the database will return strings and not dates. Now, the   works just fine! 
 I'll use a trigger on the view to pull the string/date back in and insert/update the underlying tables, thus having all the conversions happen in the database, instead of System.Data.SQLite. 
 There is a new version of System.Data.SQLite coming sometime in December of 2012, I hope this is addressed! 
 
 
 This will work, I have tested this, because built in functions in sqlite converts string to datetime format 
 
 
 Error "String was not recognized as a valid DateTime." 
 
 Change your system date time format to you database fild datetime format. 
 i hope it help you.... 
 