*** string-decimal-or-float-datatype-for-price-field ***

 I've got a price field/column (eg. 15.50 USD) and I wonder should the Rails datatype be string, decimal, or float? 
 
 This argument always has two sides - decimals and integers. Supporters of integers argue that decimals might not be accurate (when doing conversions) and that the BigDecimal implementation includes bugs, sometimes even segfaulting. 
 For my own project, i picked up integers also, wrapped them in a custom container, converting cents to "real" amounts and back. At first it seemed nice, after a while it became really cumbersome to use - tracking when you are dealing with cents, when with formatted strings etc. 
 Then i reverted to decimals - same format all the time, i can easily convert the amount to cents if needed, i get the different rounding algorithms out of the box. Im much much more satisfied with decimals. 
 And to address the issues about decimals not being accurate - when googling you might notice that most of the bugs are related to converting decimals into floats :)
As vise already mentioned before, floats are not accurate and you should never ever convert your decimal to a float. That's the single most important thing you have to remember when dealing with decimals - you don't want to lose accuracy by conversions.
Oh and i have never actually encountered any bugs with ruby 1.8.7, 1.8.7 and 1.9.1 while using BigDecimal  extensively. 
 
 
 The code above would be your best bet. 
 
 It depends. 
 If you are performing calculations for purchase prices use a decimal. 
If you are performing engineering mathematics use a float. 
If you are just storing the data use a string. 
 
 Floats are not accurate: 
 
 Don't use them unless you only store values. 
 If you need to make calculations store the price in cents as an integer. You can easily display them as USD with a helper. 
 
 I recommend using integers for prices if possible. Many popular gems (such as ActiveMerchant, Money) assume the use of integers, and it is often better to store units of measurement in a base unit (such as cents). 
 