*** unable-to-instantiate-default-tuplizer-org-hibernate-tuple-entity-pojoentitytup ***

 I am developing an application with Hibernate and I get an Exception when I connect with database. The exception is: 
 
 My mapping file is: 
 
 And the class with getters/setters which are not included: 
 
 I have   included into classpath. I do not know what is the problem. Someone would help me please. 
 Thanks! 
 
 I found when the error is launched. If I include properties in mapping file exception is thrown. If I only declare id of table, the exception is not thrown. What is the possible cause? 
 
 The complete stacktrace is: 
 
 
 When I ran into this error the fix was simple. I was simply missing a setter for a property. Make sure you define matching getters / setters for all your properties. 
 
 I was also facing the same issue. 
 Added the same dependency and it worked (like this): 
 
 
 for me something like this meant I "needed to include the javassist jar" in my maven project. 
 
 I know its an old question and lots of answers are helpful but in my case, I faced with the same error unluckily the reason was different. (Spring boot version 2.0.5.RELEASE) If you are using  
 
 IntelliJ idea 2018.1.5 or above  and you set JDK version as JDK 11  
 
 the same exception occurred. After updating the  
 
 JDK version as 8 
 
 the error is gone.  
 
 I am using spring 3.0 and Hibernate 3.6 in my project. I ran into the same error just now. Googling this error message brought me to this page. 
 Funtik's comment on Jan 17 '12 at 8:49 helped me resolve the issue- 
 "This tells me that javassist cannot be accessed. How do you include this library into the project?" 
 So, I included java assist in my maven pom file as below: 
 
 This resolved the issue for me. Thanks Funtik. 
 
 I had the same problem and resolved it adding this dependency. 
 
 I am using hibernate 3.6 version. 
 
 Add the following to your   and take out the dependency from   jars from hibernate and add separate dependency to   in a separate section. I did the same and it worked in one shot.     
 
 
 For me this was resolved by adding an explicit default constructor 
 
 
 Check your Hibernate mapping file *.hbm.xml and check the class with which you are creating the getter and setter methods. Every property in the mapping file should exist as getters and setters in the populating class. Once you fix that the error is solved. 
 Also by reading the console, you can probably see the error mentioning a missing getter/setter. 
 Hope this helps you. 
 
 Set the "long" type of id instead of java.lang.Integer. And add getters and setters to your fields.  
 
 This issue is created due to  name="iSetPointId" make "i" capital and corresponding model class changes. 
 
 In my case I had a   boolean getter and got this error. 
 I resolved it by annotating the method with the JPA   annotation and find a confirmation in an answer to  this SO question , so telling the provider not to persist the attribute. 
 
 I was getting the same error even after adding no-arg constructor,Then I figured out that I was missing several JARs.I am posting this so that if anyone gets the error like I got, make sure you have added these JARs in your lib folder : 
 
 
 According to the stack trace: 
 
 The issue is caused by "java.lang.NoClassDefFoundError", so I think you should focus on this. 
 The direct solution is to add dependency  
 
 to your pom.xml. 
 
 I had a similar problem and after going over a lot on stack overflow and spending time on the jar dependencies, I figured out that in my case, I had two sets of asm.jar. I removed one of them and it worked fine... 
 
 In my case has helped to exclude javax.transaction.jta dependency from hibernate: 
 
 
 Please do check Hibernate Property Name and Id Name also. 
 
 I had the same exception and I was excluding   because of its  issue with   . Then I was adding it again as below but it was not working: 
 
 Finally I found out that I have to remove   from   dependency. Hope it helps someone. 
 
 In my case I had a Kotlin class with some fields which were not open so the generated Java 
 setters and getters would be final. Solved it by adding   keyword to each field. 
 Before: 
 
 After: 
 
 