*** useful-php-database-class ***

 I am working on a small PHP website. I need a MySql database access class that is easy to configure and work with. 
 Does not need to be a full framework, I only need a max. few classes. 
 
 ADODb  is pretty easy to work with and worth considering. Some illustrative samples: 
 
 
 PDO works great for me, even tho it's not a fully blown library like PEAR::MDB2. 
 PDO is a compiled extension of PHP5, so there's a small performance benefit as well. 
 
 If you're happy with it being MySql specific,  MySqli  is the default choice. 
 
 I think  PEAR::MDB2  is what you are looking for. 
 
 If you don't have really specific needs, I would recommend you take a look at  PDO , which is bundled with PHP >= 5.1. 
 It's fully object-oriented, facilitates compatibility between DB engines ; and it's integration in PHP as a C extension makes it probably a bit faster than equivalents developped in PHP. 
 You could also take a look at the  mysqli  extension, which provides both a function-oriented and an object-oriented interface.
 But I'd rather go to PDO, I think... 
 
And, now that you are spending (investing ;-) ) some time looking for new stuff, you could take a look at prepared statements : they are supported by both  mysqli  and  PDO , and are nice for (amongst other things) security reasons (no need to worry about escaping your data to prevent SQL injections) 
 
If you had said you need a full ORM solution, I would have pointed you to  Doctrine , which is really a great ORM framework ; but it's probably way too much for your needs... 
 
 You can try  Zend_Db  from  Zend Framework . Later you may include mode components from ZF. 
 
 I've used  this  once in a while, It's pretty good! (And has an awesome autoslash feature), it's easily customizable and pretty small, but it had everything I needed. You can probably relatively easy expand it to support caching or whatever you desire. 
 Good luck finding whatever suits you best. :) 
 
 Also digg's PDB, which is a simple PDO wrapper or something can be downloaded from  http://code.google.com/p/digg/wiki/PDB 
 
 The simplest and lightweight db class is 
 http://code.google.com/p/edb-php-class/ 
 
 
 +1 for PHP's PDO (PHP Data Objects) extension. I use it alongside a really handy database class that extends PDO. You can find this open-source project on Google's Project Hosting at  http://code.google.com/p/php-pdo-wrapper-class . 
 
 I recommend to use  PHP-MySQLi-Database-Class , which utilizes MySQLi and prepared statements (this means that you will be protected from SQL injection). Class is well documented. 
 