*** varchar-vs-text-in-mysql ***

 I have two fields: one to store an   with a max size of 500 characters, and another to store a   with a max size of 10,000 characters. 
 What data types should I use,   or  ? And why? 
 After MySQL 5.0.3 VARCHAR accepts ~65000 characters. But this does not tell why I should use one type and or the other. 
 I'm reasoning that I should use   for the excerpt because I can assign a size limit, and   for the   field as it's larger. 
 
 A long   is stored in the same manner as a  /  field in   (which I assume you're using for transactionality, referential integrity and crash recovery, right?) - that is, externally to the rest of the table on disk (which may require another disk read to retrieve). 
 
 From storage prospective BLOB, TEXT as
  well as long VARCHAR are handled same
  way by Innodb. This is why Innodb
  manual calls it “long columns” rather
  than BLOBs. 
 
 source 
 Unless you need to index these columns (in which case   is much faster) there is no reason to use   over   for long fields - there are some engine specific optimisations in   to tune the data retrieval according to length, and you should use the correct column type to take advantage of these.  
 In case you're using   an in-depth discussion on the topic is  here . 
 
 One difference between   and   is that you can declare a   clause for a   column, but not for a   column. 
 @Andy is correct that InnoDB stores both   and   in the same way internally.  
  indexes are supported on both   and  . Prior to 5.6, you must use MyISAM to get that type of index. In MySQL 5.6, it finally supports   in InnoDB. Though you should test it carefully, because it seems to  return different results  than the implementation in MyISAM.  
 However,  Sphinx Search  is faster and richer in features than either implementation in MySQL.  See my overview in  Full-Text Search Throwdown . 
 @Mohammed asked: 
 
 when does   become considered  ? Is there a character threshold?  
 
 If you declare a length of up to 255 bytes, it can encode the length of a given string using one byte. If you declare the column max length over 255 bytes, it will use two bytes to encode the length. 
 You can declare a column as  , but this is really just an alias for  MEDIUMTEXT . 
 
 
 If your content fits in a varchar column then use varchar. 
 Varchar data is stored in each row. Text data is stored as blobs outside of the table. 
 According to  this test , varchar is about three times faster than text. 
 