*** what-is-your-favorite-solution-for-managing-database-migrations-in-django ***

 
 
 
 
 
 Closed.  This question is  off-topic . It is not currently accepting answers.
                            
                         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Want to improve this question?   Update the question  so it's  on-topic  for Stack Overflow.
                         
 Closed  3 years ago . 
 
 
 
 I quite like Rails' database migration management system.  It is not 100% perfect, but it does the trick.  Django does not ship with such a database migration system (yet?) but there are a number of open source projects to do just that, such as django-evolution and south for example. 
 So I am wondering, what database migration management solution for django do you prefer? (one option per answer please) 
 
 I've been using  South , but  Migratory  looks promising as well. 
 
 Migratory  looks nice and simple. 
 
 We use Django at work, and we've been using  dmigrations . While it has its quirks, it's been useful so far. Some features: 
 
 It uses a table in the database to keep track of which migrations have been applied. 
 Because it knows which ones have been applied, you can migrate up and back down. 
 It integrates with   as a command. 
 The individual migration scripts are Python, but if your migration logic is pure SQL,  dmigrations  makes it easy to just can the SQL and have it executed. 
 
 One problem is that it only currently supports MySQL. However, one of our guys make a local hack to it to support PostgreSQL, which we use. As I recall, the hack wasn't all that extensive, so it shouldn't be terribly difficult to hack it up to support other RDBMSs. 
 
 If you are using  SQLAlchemy  as your ORM then the de facto standard is  Alembic . 
 Another alternative that haven't been mentioned is  yoyo-migrations . 
 
 I like  django-evolution : 
 pros: 
 
 clean design 
 no SQL needed 
 flexible 
 trivial to install 
 easy to use 
 
 cons: 
 
 migrations are not fixed in the codebase 
 a risk exists of accidently running a migration twice 
 
 
 Besides South, dmigrations, django-evolution, and Migratory I thought I would add  simplemigrations  as another tool I've seen for automating Django migrations. 
 I've used three of these in the past but do migrations by hand now.  I'm thinking about trying South again due to the latest features added. 
 
 Just to note that since 2009, pretty much every project mentioned here other than South is dead.  South  is the de facto standard, for better or worse. 
 
 I've been using  simple-db-migrate 
 Pros: 
 
 it allows me to rollback the migrations (IDK if other do this too).  
 integrates with manage.py 
 everyone that knows SQL can create a migration 
 it doesn't run a migration twice: the application writes the migration information(timestamp, query, etc.) on a table  
 
 Cons: 
 
 if you add a migration with a lower timestamp than the latest migration installed, this migration doesn't run 
 Only MySQL is supported 
 
 