*** whats-a-postgresql-cluster-and-how-do-i-create-one ***

 I am very new to databases, I haven't worked lot on it. Now I want to understand the term database clusters. I googled a lot and found many useful links but I am not able to understand them - maybe because I have very little basic knowledge about databases and also they were in very techy language. 
 I need advice on these points: 
 
 What are database clusters in PostgreSQL? 
 How to create clusters in PostgreSQL? 
 
 
 A PostgreSQL database "cluster" is a postmaster and a group of subsiduary processes, all managing a shared data directory that contains one or more databases. 
 The term  "cluster"  in PostgreSQL is a historical quirk * , and is completely different to the general meaning of  "compute cluster" , which normally refers to groups of computers that work together to achieve higher performance and/or availability. It is also un-related to the PostgreSQL command  , which is about organizing tables. 
 
 If you're reading this you might actually be looking for information on high availability, replication or pooling, in which case you should read the  Replication, Clustering and High Availability  wiki article and the  high availability  section of the PostgreSQL manual, then look into tools like  repmgr . 
 
 A cluster is normally created for you when you install PostgreSQL; the installation will usually   a new cluster for you. It is quite unusual for a basic or intermediate user to ever need to create clusters or manage multiple clusters, so it would help if you explained  why  you want to do this, and  what the underlying problem you are trying to solve is . The  user manual  could probably explain this better, since it assumes you're installing PostgreSQL from source and relatively few people actually do that. 
 Each cluster's data directory is created with   and managed with a postmaster that's started via a system service (Windows service,  ,  ,  ,  , etc depending on operating system and version) or directly via  . 
 The cluster has built-in databases  ,   and  ; other databases are created by the user. 
 The postmaster for a cluster accepts incoming connections by listening on a tcp port, and hands those off to worker backends. Only one postmaster may run on a given port, so each cluster must have a different port. 
 I wrote more about PostgreSQL's structure in  this previous answer . See the sub-heading "Relations? Schema? Huh?". 
 How to "create" clusters in Pg depends entirely on how you are running it. Since you're asking, I suspect you're on an Ubuntu system that uses  , in which case you'd use the   commands like  .  
 
 *  The confusion between a "cluster" in PostgreSQL terminology and the common usage of the term "cluster" is a confusing and regrettable historical oddity, especially when discussing clustering of PostgreSQL instances. You can have a cluster of PostgreSQL clusters, which is just painful. 
 