*** what-is-purpose-of-database-schema ***

 
 
 
 
 
 Closed . This question needs to be more  focused . It is not currently accepting answers.
                            
                         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Want to improve this question?  Update the question so it focuses on one problem only by  editing this post .
                         
 Closed  4 years ago . 
 
 
 
 What is the purpose of database schema? Where can I find more information about this? It's not table, it's not database, what is it? 
 
 From the  quackit.com  tutorial –  SQL Server - Database Schemas : 
 
 A database schema is a way to
  logically group objects such as
  tables, views, stored procedures etc.
  Think of a schema as a container of
  objects. 
 You can assign a user login
  permissions to a single schema so that
  the user can only access the objects
  they are authorized to access. 
 Schemas can be created and altered in
  a database, and users can be granted
  access to a schema. A schema can be
  owned by any user, and schema
  ownership is transferable. 
 
 
 A SQL schema  is container of objects. For example you may have a large enterprise application and then it's a good practice to use different schemas for different purposes (e.g. put HR related tables into HR schema, accounting related tables into Accounting schema and so on). A schema can be owned by any user, and the ownership is transferable. 
 
 Your best answer is probably all over the interwebs, such as: 
 Database schema  article in Wikipedia. 
 However, put simply, the database schema is the definition that describes the entire configuration of the database, including all of its tables, relations, index, etc. 
 
 The logical schema is the structure of the tables and relationships in the database. 
 The physical one is how this structure and the data it holds are stored. 
 
 A database schema is a name space. It is like the C++ namespace, Java namespace, Delphi unit, etc. Depending on the DBMS, it may allow: 
 
 to grant / revoke access to namespace; 
 to use fully qualified / short object name (.); 
 to admin the schema as a unit; 
 etc. 
 
 You have to go to the your DBMS vendor site and check the documentation for the Schema term. In most cases, that will be a topic in Concepts. 
 
 It's like a folder where you can have tables and other objects inside 
 Here is some more on  wikipedia 
 