*** what-is-a-parent-table-and-a-child-table-in-database ***

 I just want to know what is a parent table and what is a child table in databases. Can you please show me an example so I understand how it works please. 
 Thank You 
 
 Child tables and parent tables are just normal database tables, but they’re linked in a way that's described by a parent–child relationship. 
 It’s usually used to specify where one table’s value refers to the value in another table (usually a primary key of another table). 
 For example, imagine a news article. This could be represented by a table called   and has fields for  ,  ,  ,   and  . But instead of placing a name in the   field, you could instead put the ID value of a user in a separate table—maybe called  —that has information on authors such as  ,  , and  . 
 Therefore, if you need to update an author’s name, you only need to do so in the   (parent) table; because the   (child) table only contains the ID of the corresponding   record. 
 Hope this helps you understand better. 
 
 Be aware you can have relationships that appear to be parent-child but are not, for instance when lookup tables are being used.  The distinction is that in a true parent-child relationship, records typically don't stand are their own very well - they are detail records for the parent and are not useful without the parent table info.  A person can own multiple cars in the DMV database, but you wouldn't want records in the CARS table without a parent record in the OWNERS table - it would be nearly useless data. 
 On the other hand, if I am using a lookup table to expand a code to something more meaningful, or to constrain data entry to acceptable values, then the "child" record can still useful (can stand alone) if the lookup table is deleted.  I could still have the sex information as "M" or "F" even if I no longer have the lookup table to expand that to "Male" or "Female". 
 
 Parent - The entity on the "one" (/1) side of a relation with another table 
 Child - The entity on the "many" (/N/*) side of a relation with another table 
 
 A child table tends to be one where it has one or more foreign keys pointing at some other table(s). Note that a child table can itself be a parent to some OTHER table as well. 
 
 Those terms are used in database relationships. 
 for example u have two table, 
 1.Manifast 
 
 
 day_sequence 
 
 
 
 
 if u want to connect those two tables,u need to use the command with following format. 
 
 and so it become. 
 
 In summary,
Child table is a table which has foreign key,and is connected from others table.
Parent table has no foreign key and connect to other.
[ Note : This ans is just for connecting two tables ] 
 