*** whats-the-easiest-cheapest-way-to-create-a-cloud-based-sql-database ***

 I have a website that I've built (hosted on Amazon S3) and it works great.  The only problem is that all of the data is static.  I'd like to create a SQL database in the cloud that would allow me to store basic text data from users after they submit forms.  I'm still a novice web-developer but I've used sqlite3 for several of my Java desktop apps and I'd like to use that SQL knowledge to create this online database.  I guess what i'm asking (in my ignorance) is:  how can I create a sqlite-type database that is stored in the cloud and that I can query against using javascript? 
 Where do I get started?  Is there a service like Amazon AWS or Azure or something where I can create this database and then use some sort of jQuery/Javascript API to query data from it?  I don't need a ton of storage space and my queries would be very basic SQL type stuff. 
 Any help would be greatly appreciated.  Thanks in advance. 
 
 For more flexibility, less service lock-in, and cheaper scalability: I would suggest  CouchDB  (though you would likely still use a hosting service like  Cloudant ). CouchDB can host your website, and provides a HTTP API for storing data, to which your client-side JavaScript can make REST calls. 
 
 StackMob has a free package that you can use.  You can use the JS SDK to write your HTML5 app and save stuff to the StackMob DB.  You can host your HTML5 on StackMob for free and point your own domain to it as well.  There is also S3 integration. 
 Some references: 
 JS SDK 
 JS SDK Tutorial 
 Hosting your HTML5 
 Custom Domains 
 
 Create a Postgres database on Heroku for free. 
 https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/heroku-postgres-plans#hobby-tier 
 
 As you mentioned your website is hosted on Amazon S3 I am sure it is a static website with lots of JavaScript embedded HTML files. Due to having a static website, I can understand your requirement to use a database which can be connected from your static site and to be very honest there are not a lot options you have. Static website are considered to have no dependency on database so honestly you have very limited choice because what you are looking for is "A Database which is accessible over HTTP which you can call from scripting language withing HTML" 
 If you have ability to write back to S3 directly from your JavaScript code you can create a JavaScript based database within your static site which is complex but consider a choice.  
 In my thinking you are better off to have an extra-small instance in Windows Azure (or your choice of cloud service) and connect with a cloud based database which will be comparative cheaper and fit for your requirement.  
 Or unless Amazon can come up with a DB accessible from status content as S3, you really have no  great  choices here. 
 
 Since you are already familiar some of AWS's offerings, you should check out: 
 
 Amazon RDS  - Managed Relational Database Service for MySQL or Oracle 
 Amazon DynamoDB  - Fast, Predictable, Highly-scalable NoSQL data store 
 
 But to do what you are asking (access data via JavaScript), check out  www.stackmob.com .  You can host an HTML5 application with data access via backbone (javascript based framework) on StackMob. 
 
 Create a Virtual Private Server on Vultr.com. It's not the easiest way, but it's the best way for you to learn about Database Security, and it will be significantly cheaper than the other solutions, should your server begin to require more storage. 
 
 SQLite isn't really a good choice for web facing applications due to its scaling issues. 
 Both AWS and Azure support SQL databases. They also each support alternatives like MongoDB and Redis. For something as basic as you describe the only real difference is cost. 
 