*** what-is-the-syntax-meaning-of-raiserror ***

 I just created a Instead After Trigger whose syntax is given below: 
 
 In the above syntax I have used  
 But when I write   it gives the error "Incorrect syntax near ')'" on the same line. 
 Can anyone please explain the use of (16,1) here. 
 
 It is the severity level of the  .  The levels are from 11 - 20 which throw an error in  .  The higher the level, the more severe the level and the   should be aborted.  
 You will get the syntax error when you do: 
 
 Because you have not specified the correct   (  or  ).  
 If you wish to issue a warning and not an  , use levels 0 - 10. 
 From MSDN: 
 
 severity 
 Is the user-defined severity level associated with this message. When
  using msg_id to raise a user-defined message created using
  sp_addmessage, the severity specified on RAISERROR overrides the
  severity specified in sp_addmessage. Severity levels from 0 through 18
  can be specified by any user. Severity levels from 19 through 25 can
  only be specified by members of the sysadmin fixed server role or
  users with ALTER TRACE permissions. For severity levels from 19
  through 25, the WITH LOG option is required. 
 state  
 Is an integer from 0 through 255. Negative values or values
  larger than 255 generate an error. If the same user-defined error is
  raised at multiple locations, using a unique state number for each
  location can help find which section of code is raising the errors.
  For detailed description  here 
 
 
 16 is severity and 1 is state, more specifically following example might give you more detail on syntax and usage: 
 
 You can follow and try out more examples from  http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/ms178592.aspx 
 
 according to  MSDN 
 
  would be the severity. 
  would be the state. 
 The error you get is because you have not properly supplied the required parameters for the   function. 
 
 The severity level 16 in your example code is typically used for user-defined (user-detected) errors.  The SQL Server DBMS itself emits  severity levels  (and error messages) for problems it detects, both more severe (higher numbers) and less so (lower numbers). 
 The state should be an integer between 0 and 255 (negative values will give an error), but the choice is basically the programmer's.  It is useful to put different state values if the same error message for user-defined error will be raised in different locations, e.g. if the debugging/troubleshooting of problems will be assisted by having an extra indication of where the error occurred. 
 