*** what-local-database-do-i-use-with-react-native ***

 I'm new to react native and I need a list of local database tools that will meet the minimum criteria in the description to follow. 
 If this were a PHP/MySQL application, I build 3 database tables: 
 
 These three tables combined in MySQL takes up about 10MB to 15MB. Then I would use PHP to create an interface that will present the results of this query: 
 
 In a MySQL/PHP application, the results of the SQL query will return in less than 2 seconds. 
 In the react-native world, I need a local database that achieves similar results to above but must also comply with the following requirements: 
 
 must support 15 MB of persistent storage (so that you can use it without internet access) 
 querying for a meal filtered by 3 food items must complete in less than 3 seconds on modern mainstream mobile devices.  Eg. the equivalent of the SQL query above must complete in less than 3 seconds on an iphone 6 and Huawei Nova Plus. 
 
 I have already tried the following: 
 A. Realm is failing on criteria 2 as indicated in this question here: 
 Improve the speed of a realm query in react-native? 
 A solution to the Realm question will be an acceptable answer to this question. 
 B. Six years ago, I tried this with core data on an iOS device.  The iOS device kept crashing due to insufficient memory.   
 C. I'm trying SQLite Storage but already running into this problem here: 
 basic React Native SQLite script returning undefined which causes error 
 What tools can solve this problem? 
 
 consider react native as front end library thats need a restful api to connect so you can make backend with php and react native will receive data from it 
 if you need local database you can use  react-native-local-mongodb 
 or  react-native-sqlite-storage 
 or  react-native-sqlite 
 also if you use  redux  you can also use  redux-persist   
 
 I have not used those other databases that people listed, but I would recommend Realm.
Very useful, fast, fully integrated with react-native and very well documented. 
 https://realm.io 
 
 You can use SQLite, it has a native plugin for React Native :
 https://github.com/andpor/react-native-sqlite-storage 
 