*** where-i-can-download-sample-database-which-can-be-used-as-data-warehouse ***

 
 
 
 
 
 Closed.  This question is  off-topic . It is not currently accepting answers.
                            
                         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Want to improve this question?   Update the question  so it's  on-topic  for Stack Overflow.
                         
 Closed  4 years ago . 
 
 
 
 Where I can download sample database which can be used for data warehouse creation? It should't be sample from Microsoft (Northwind etc.). 
 EDIT: Sorry for not clarifying my question. At my university we have class where we must create some data warehouse and since Northwind is so popular over net then professor told us not to use this database. We will use for this SQL Server 2008 but using Northwind is forbidden. 
 
 Whatever happened to NOT Northwind? 
 http://www.hanselman.com/blog/CommunityCallToActionNOTNorthwind.aspx 
 There's also SQL Data Generator from Redgate: 
 http://www.red-gate.com/products/SQL_Data_Generator/index.htm 
 
 This is a free online database data generator:
 www.generatedata.com 
 You can design a table structure and let the script generate rows to populate it.
It's not exactly what you need, but I think it can help. 
 
 I have been working with the Open Flights dataset this semester for BI. This Flight Data could work for future projects, along with anything  Kimball  or Red Gate related. I enjoyed learning the difference between methodologies on this page,  Data Warehouse Architecture .  
 OpenFlights.org 
 Additionally, it was can be downloaded on this  Visualizing Data webpage, under datasets, Global Flight Network Data. 
 Learn more about  OpenFlights Data at DataHub . 
 Also, the data was in dat files and I imported it with delimited columns in Excel. After that it wasn't that difficult to use the data.  Here was a good tutorial on importing these data files using a comma delimiter in Excel . 
 Also, I found this  dataset page as well that had a few other useful data examples of Enterprise Data Models on Databaseanswers.org .  
 Let me know if you find any other useful datasets learning examples.   
 
 Hey Just use Adventure works SR4 
 
 the best way to learn is to use AdventureWorks database. There is a relational version of it which is to demo the source data and there is star schema version of it, built from a relational one for data warehousing / OLTP system. 
 Download it from here - many Microsoft books on SQL Server / SSAS use this as example. A friend of mine used it to learn about data warehousing and get his first BI job. 
 http://msftdbprodsamples.codeplex.com/ 
 