*** which-database-engine-is-best-for-node-js-apps ***

 
 
 
 
 
 Closed . This question is  opinion-based . It is not currently accepting answers.
                            
                         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Want to improve this question?  Update the question so it can be answered with facts and citations by  editing this post .
                         
 Closed  6 years ago . 
 
 
 
 I am looking for a database engine which is the best for storing thousands of records. I first wanted to use MySQL, because I know it best, but I'd like to have strong answer. 
 I need predefined columns, database can be as small as 10 MB or as "big" as 10 GB of data and it would be cool if that engine is fast for reads (insertions may be a bit slower). I don't need fast-fulltext-search or regexp searching. To give you an example - selecting items via slug extracted from link. 
 I saw  this site  before but I still don't know what is best option for me. 
 So here is my question: Which database engine is best for uses like mine? 
 
 
 database can be as small as 10 MB or as "big" as 10 GB of data 
 
 At that size, you could use virtually any database you want. Remember, 10 GBs of data is small enough to fit into memory on a modern server. 
 
 I need predefined columns... 
 
 Sounds like SQL. Take you pick: MySQL, PostgreSQL, SQLite... at that size it will barely matter, just use what you like. 
 The performance difference on a "few gigs" of data will be negligible. 
 
 You should look at  MEAN stack . Personally, I like MongoDB - I use an ORM tool like  mongooseJS  - It increases your development speed rapidly. The one thing i really like about having Node JS, Express body parser, mongodb and mongoose is I deal everything on the server side in one language - Javascript and I expose REST services which can be consumed on Web (typically  Angular  - the A in MEAN stack or  backbone ) based application.  
 
 Look at  MongoDB . 
And don't forget to look at  TokuMX  - it's very promising! 
 