*** which-is-the-best-database-to-use-with-node-js-express-js ***

 
 
 
 
 
 Closed . This question is  opinion-based . It is not currently accepting answers.
                            
                         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Want to improve this question?  Update the question so it can be answered with facts and citations by  editing this post .
                         
 Closed  last year . 
 
 
 
 Which is the best database to use with node.js (express.js) 
 
 Cassandra 
 Couchbase 
 CouchDB 
 LevelDB 
 MySQL 
 MongoDB 
 Neo4j 
 Oracle 
 PostgreSQL 
 Redis 
 SQL Server 
 SQLite 
 ElasticSearch 
 
 Please suggest any one. 
 
 Redis is an in-memory database. So it doesn't really fit into the list. Redis is great for storing web tokens (for example) and anything else that doesn't necessarily need to be preserved between reboots. If you want insanely fast query times and don't care if the data is saved to disk, choose this guy. I'm currently building an MMO where a key (auth token) and the value (position, username, etc.) is stored in Redis. This allows for insanely fast position updates. 
 When choosing a database, it doesn't really matter which one you choose unless there is a database that advertises a specific advantage that you need. Usually, those advantages and disadvantages are advertised very clearly on the database documentation and you should read up on these differences. 
 For instance, MongoDB fits beautifully with Node.js with a great wrapper package called Mongoose (on npmjs.com). However, MongoDB is optimized for fast single queries and small document sizes of 16MB maximum. If you are building a file storing app, and want to store user's large files, MongoDB probably isn't your best choice. 
 If you want a database that has literal decades of development and community with instant google searches for documentation, use an SQL database (MYSQL, PostgreSQL, SQLite). SQL has been around forever and can be modified to do just about anything you want. 
 Images are also not something that is typically stored on databases either. So you might not need a database at all! Using something like Amazon S3 to store images or just a Linux file structure is about all you will need. 
 To conclude, businesses use multiple databases, languages, and web frameworks to accomplish what they need. A business might have a company webpage that will do just fine with a static Apache, PHP, HTML, CSS, and JQuery mix. They may also have a web app for the employees. But, it might be better suited to use MongoDB with a React.js frontend. So again, choose what works best for the specific project you are using, and you can worry about integrating it with other projects in the future. 
 For kicks and giggles, for a really specific database, check out my in-development database for USB devices at:  https://github.com/jackmead515/jsmdatabase 
 
 you can use these databases with node.js and express.js
MongoDB.
Neo4j.
Oracle.
PostgreSQL.
Redis.
SQL Server.
SQLite.
cassandra.
couchDB
ElasticSearch.
 most preferred one is mongo and sql 
 
 All the above DB are good, it depends on what use case that you need it for. For most of the occasion mongoDb will do the trick for backend and it is scalable and elasticsearch for search oriented systems.  
 
 How about realm database? I've seen quite a lot of use for mobile database and I'm not sure if it's good for node.js or not. 
 