*** 3d-modeling-for-data-structures ***

 I'm looking for a 3D modeling/animation software. Honestly, I don't know if this is something achievable - but what I want to have is some kind of visual representation of various ideas. 
 Speaking in future tense: if I were to read about of the boot process of an OS, I would visualize the various data structures building up; and I can step through the process with a sliding bar or so. If I were to think about a complex data structure, I would have a 3D representation of various links and relations between them. Another would be a Git repository at work - how commits/trees/blobs are linked in space, and how they progress as time passes. And all of these would be interactive. 
 The reason why I want to do this is that it'd be very easy to explain the process. Not just to others, but also to self. I can revisit my model, and it'd be a quick brush up. 
 I'm sure there are no ready-to-use softwares for this. What I could think of are Flash, with action scripting, or Blender 3D (Python scripting?); or Synfig. Whatever it's, I've to learn up start; and I'm looking for suggestions as to which (even if not in my list) is the right one to choose. 
 Thanks 
 
 I've used Blender, but it requires a large upfront investment of time, especially to learn the UI.  Blender is all about the hotkeys.  Once you have them memorized, it's great.  But getting there takes a while. 
 Alice  might be worth a look.  It looks easy to use and supports scripting. 
 
 There are many tools available for 3D modeling. I'm a fan of 3D Studio max. But there is Blender, Maya, and truespace.  
 You may want to take a look at the field of visualization to help with illustrating your message. 
 
 I suspect that packages such as 3D Studio Max and Blender are too powerful, in the sense that your relatively simple requirements will force you on too long a learning path.  Try Googling for Data Structure Animations to get an idea of what others have used.  Also, head over to Information Aesthetics, they recently featured a tool for visualising commits and checkouts to/from repositories and similar. 
 My favourite is nearly the Lego Designer, very good for 3D block animations, but so far I haven't figured out how to add text to the blocks. 
 