*** data-structures-for-jinja ***

 Brief: I am creating a website that displays events I have scraped off other websites. 
 Problem:
At the moment I can display the events by day but have to list everything out manually. No for loops.  
 This is because I have a dictionary of lists I believe. 
To get the title of a one of an event happening today the syntax is: 
 
 where D is a dictionary
  is a dynamic variable that represents the day,  ,   exists as well.   contains  ,  ,  ,  ,   etc information about events.  
 that would return something like "talk on x" 
 The reason I cannot iterate through the data structure because of the dynamic variable ( I was trying to do in  ). I am relatively new to data structures and hadn't realized that dynamic data structures would cause such problems. 
 I have messed around with a variety of different for loops and gave up. I then decided to change my data structure to a dictionary of arrays, a problem arose about passing the dictionary of arrays into the html page.  
 Conclusion. My question is should I find a way to iterate through the dynamic variable with  ? Find a way to pass an array into the   file or am I doing everything wrong? 
 FURTHER EXPLANATION 
 functions I extract information from database  
 
 This is the data structure I cannot iterate through with for loops in Jinja.. 
 Second function attempt for arrays: 
 for this function i never got to trying to iterate through it in Jinja because of the errors I was getting. D and d were still dictionaries, I was a bit creative with what data structure date and rows could be, I tried an array and a dictionary. But after trying to fix and coming up with new problems I decided that this might not be the best way. 
 
 Jinja code was just a myriad of different for loops of which none worked.  
 
 You are painting yourself in a corner by dynamically producing numbered keys. You have a sequence, not a series of distinct pieces of data; extracting those keys again later on is only going to be painful. 
 Instead of numbered dictionary keys, use a  list . You can combine the date and query data together into one tuple per entry: 
 
 then loop over the resulting list in your Jinja template: 
 
 Instead of a tuple, a dictionary per entry would also be fine, but then you can't so easily use tuple assignment as shown in the outer Jinja loop above. 
 