*** designing-data-structure-java-data-structures ***

 I am having confusing over how to choose my data structure. Lets say i have following data
Product,Price,Company,Total available..  which i get from db. Now i want to represent this in  lets say excel or csv in same order as i get from db company wise.
So i choose below data structure. 
 
 First String represents Company 
 Integer represents position of record in db so that i can display in same order. 
The TreeMap contains other values. 
 Can I choose any better data structure for this requirement. 
 
 Yes, absolutely. 
 A better solution would be object-oriented: 
 
 The data structure would be a  . 
 Your way is too primitive. 
 
 Traditional data structures follow a structured programming paradigm.  Object oriented programming has roots in structured programming, but adds in the concept of behavior locality.  In short, the data is not just centralized, but the behavior (methods) that go with the data is centralized. 
 This allows data hiding (useful for maintenance, as the right data format tends to change over time), and opens the door to other more advance behaviors (polymorphisim is possible because the behavior is localized).  However, it doesn't do much for a pure play data structure approach.  The closest we have to old school data structures are objects which represent them. 
 When selecting a data structure, if you really don't have an idea of what is important, you really don't have the criteria which would allow you to select one data structure over another.  Sure, you could just always use   and   and that would be fine  a lot of the time ; but, there are trivial examples where those selections are probably the worst choices.  In short, you need to know the access patterns to make the right choice. 
 
 As duffymo suggests, you should consider an oop approach. Consider using something like the following example: 
 
 It will produce the following output: 
 
 As you can see, you will be able to easily manage your list of items. 
 Hope it helps. 
 Clemencio Morales Lucas. 
 