*** java-data-structures-reference ***

 Can anyone give me references of a web site containing a summary of the main Java data structures, and their respective complexity in time (for some given operations like add, find, remove), e.g.  s are O(1) for finding, while  s are O(n). Some details like memory usage would be nice too. 
 This would be really helpful for thinking in data structures for algorithms. 
 
 Is there a reason to think that Java's implementation is different (in terms of complexity) than a generic, language agnostic implementation?  In other words, why not just refer to a general reference on the complexity of various data structures: 
 NIST Dictionary of Algorithms and Data Structures 
 But, if you insist on Java-specific: 
 Java standard data structures Big O notation 
 Java Collections cheatsheet V2  (dead link, but  this is the first version of the cheatsheet ) 
 
 The most comprehensive Java Collections overview is here 
 http://en.wikiversity.org/wiki/Java_Collections_Overview 
 
 I found very useful  The Collections Framework  page, expecially the  Outline of the Collections Framework , where every interface/class is breeefly described. Unfortunately there's no big-O information. 
 
 I couldn't see this particular resource mentioned here, i've found it of great use in the past. Know Thy Complexities! 
 http://bigocheatsheet.com/ 
 
 Time and space complexities for the main collection classes should correspond to data structures known time complexity. I don't think there's anything Java specific about it, e.g. (as you say) hash lookup should be O(1). You could look  here  or  here . 
 
 I don't believe there is any single website outlining this (sounds like a good idea for a project though). I think part of the problem is that an understanding in how each of the algorithms runs is very important. For the most part, it sounds like you understand Big-O, so I would use that as your best guesses. Follow it up with some benchmarking/profiling to see what runs faster/slower.  
 And, yes, the  Java docs  should have much of this information in  . 
 