*** javascript-data-structures-library ***

 
 
 
 
 
 Closed.  This question is  off-topic . It is not currently accepting answers.
                            
                         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Want to improve this question?   Update the question  so it's  on-topic  for Stack Overflow.
                         
 Closed  12 months ago . 
 
 
 
 I'd like to ask for recommendation of JavaScript library/libraries that supply an implementation of some basic data structures such as a priority queue, map with arbitrary keys, tries, graphs, etc. along with some algorithms that operate on them. 
 I'm mostly interested in:  
 
 The set of features covered, 
 Flexibility of the solution - this mostly applies to graphs. For example do I have to use a supplied graph implementation, 
 Use of functional features of the language - again it sometimes gives greater flexibility, 
 Performance of the implementation 
 
 I'd like to point out that I'm aware that it's possible to implement using JavaScript the following data structures: 
 
 A map, if key values are either strings or numbers, 
 A set, (using a map implementation), 
 A queue, although as was pointed out below, it's inefficient on some browsers, 
 
 At the moment I'm mostly interested in priority queues (not to confuse with regular queues), graph implementations that aren't very intrusive as to the format of the input graph. For example they could use callbacks to traverse the structure of the graph rather than access some concrete properties with fixed names. 
 
 I recommend to use Closure Library (especially with closure compiler). 
 Here you have a library with data structures  goog.structs .
The library contains: 
 
 As example you can use unit test:  goog.structs.PriorityQueueTest . 
 If you need to work on arrays, there's also an array lib:  goog.array . 
 As noted in comments, the source has moved to  github.com/google/closure  and the documentation's new location is:  google.github.io/closure-library . 
 
 You can try  Buckets  is a very complete JavaScript data structure library that includes: 
 
 Linked List 
 Dictionary 
 Multi Dictionary 
 Binary Search Tree 
 Stack 
 Queue 
 Set 
 Bag 
 Binary Heap 
 Priority Queue 
 
 
 Probably most of what you want is built-in to Javascript in one way or another, or easy to put together with built-in functionality (native Javascript data structures are incredibly flexible). You might like   JSClass . 
 As for the functional features of the language,  underscore.js  is where it's at.. 
 
 I can help you with the maps with arbitrary keys: my  jshashtable  does this, and there is also a hash set implementation built on top of it. 
 
 Efficient queue . 
 If you find more of these, could you please add them to  jswiki . Thanks. :) 
 
 Is your javascript in an application, or a web page? If it's for an application, why not outsource the data structures to  Redis ? There's a  client for nodejs 
 
 Redis is an open source, advanced key-value store. It is often referred to as a data structure server since keys can contain strings, hashes, lists, sets and sorted sets. 
 
 
 Adding a link to a custom javascript library which provides Priority Queues, Tries, Basic Graph processing and other implementation, for future reference of the visitors to this thread . Check out  dsjslib   
 
 Especially for graph-like structures, i find graphlib very convenient: 
 https://github.com/cpettitt/graphlib/wiki/API-Reference 
 It is very straight-forward, faster than other implementations I tried, has all the basic features, popular graph-algorithms and a JSON data export. 
 
 data.js . 
 I don't believe it's as feature rich as you want but it has graphs, hashes and collections. 
 I would take this a lightweight start that you can extend on.  
 As for what it does offer, it's well written, efficient and documented.  
 